Today is for any young Indian boy or girl,
under the age of 25,
who wants to start
a consumer electronic brand.
Start? Okay, ready?
All right.
Hi, guys, thank you for coming home
and doing this.
I think Carl had to travel
from further, further away.
-Mm-hmm.
-Amit and Rahul live closer in Delhi.
So maybe we start
by speaking about ourselves,
giving my audience an intro of who we are,
how we got to be where we are.
Rahul is already a friend of mine,
so I know a lot about him.
But maybe we start with Carl.
Sure. I'm happy to be here.
It took a while for us to schedule it
back and forth, but we're finally here.
So I'm Carl.
I'm one of the co-founders of a company
called Nothing.
But ever since I can remember,
I was always a tech fan.
I grew up in Stockholm, in Sweden.
I remember, my parents got me
the first iPod.
And I was only like 12 at the time.
And the first-generation iPod
was very complicated,
because, I don't know
if you guys remember,
-it had the FireWire connection.
-[Rahul] Right.
I had a PC.
It didn't have the FireWire connection.
So I had to buy...
First, I got the iPod, I didn't know.
-I couldn't connect it to the PC.
-Right.
Then I had to buy a PCI card for FireWire,
install that, to even be able
to connect the iPod.
And back then, there was no iTunes,
so it was RealPlayer to manage the music.
Well, anyway, that product
got me really hooked on technology.
The scroll wheel was really cool,
and managing the music library,
fixing all the ID3 tags for each song,
getting the album arts perfect.
And a couple of years later,
I was probably...
So I think I was the first to get the iPod
in my entire school.
So I was a cool kid among the nerds
in the beginning.
Where was the school, Carl?
That was in Stockholm.
What year are we talking about?
iPod. When was the iPod?
2001?
Yeah. You're 36 today, right?
Yeah, I'm 35... turning 36.
So when I was 12, I got the iPod.
Really excited about that product.
Then I got the first iPhone
through a friend in the US,
because the iPhone
was only exclusive with AT&T.
So I had a friend buy it for me,
and then we had to pay
a $450 cancellation fee on the contract,
and then got it shipped,
and then jailbroke it,
and installed my own SIM card.
So I was the first among all my friends
to get the iPhone.
But I think those two products
were super formative for me.
I guess the third thing
that happened was...
Then I got the iPad.
I forgot which year,
but the first year the iPad came out.
And I don't know if you guys remember,
it used to have a skeuomorphic UI.
So, basically, the UI tried to mimic
how things look like in real life.
And when you swipe from the bottom,
there was a control panel.
And it was like metallic.
So you had like a volume knob
that was brushed metal.
But when you tilted the iPad,
the light source of the graphic
also changed.
So, I'm like, "Oh, my God,
like, if Apple thinks about
every little detail like this...
I can trust them on like...
They've figured everything out."
So those three moments made me a big fan
of this industry and of Apple.
Do you still feel that way about Apple?
No, it's a very different company now.
When did it change?
I think the change has been gradual.
I think the two CEOs have had
a very different approach
to running the company.
I mean, the stock price doesn't lie.
I think Tim Cook has done a great job
on the shareholder value creation side.
But when it just comes to inspiring
a young guy or a young person
to take a career in tech, I think
the old Apple was way better at that.
So really inspired by those products.
And then, I was chronically online
as a kid.
My parents were busy.
They were always at work,
but I got a laptop computer,
and I got fibre Internet
at a very young age
because the infrastructure
was pretty well developed in Sweden.
-At 12, you had...
-Fibre.
-And phone, access to phone.
-I had a Nokia 3210.
-At 12 years old.
-Yeah.
So then fast forward to later,
so I had the Internet.
Started making friends online
'cause I felt like the friends around me,
they only saw a very small part
of the world.
Whereas online,
you can connect with anybody.
So I made a very good friend.
We were chatting on MSN Messenger
every single day
about how to make money online.
We were both writing blogs
and making websites and all that stuff.
And then, he then became
the youngest founder
to get into Y Combinator.
And he's, like, two years younger than me.
-Wow.
-I was very jealous when he got in.
He was probably 17 or something.
And so that was also my plan.
So after uni,
I'm going to apply for Y Combinator.
So it was a different time,
when consumer Internet
was still very, like, booming
with Facebook and all that.
What's really working for Y Combinator?
We're trying to start something like that
called WTFund,
which is a non-dilutive grant programme
where we don't take equities.
It's not too much like Y Combinator,
but a different version of it.
Why have they been so successful?
I don't know. I haven't thought about it.
When I was young,
I just wanted to go there,
because I thought that was the place
you had to go
if you wanted to become
a Silicon Valley founder.
They made a lot of... They've been
a kingmaker in the industry, I think.
I'm sure they have some
unique way of figuring out
who's a good fit in terms of founders.
And then they have their brand.
And then they prepare
the founders for, like...
the subsequent funding rounds
in a pretty smart way.
Like, even when I'm raising money,
sometimes, I reference
the Y Combinator docs,
like, the guides for how to raise money.
Do you think it's network
or access to capital?
The capital is very little, actually.
-Half a million.
-Yeah. It was even less before.
And they take a lot of stake
for that money.
But I think it's a branding thing.
Like, once you have that brand
on your resume,
your next round will be a lot easier.
And your next, next round
will be a lot easier.
And they do have good content to teach.
Maybe that's their user acquisition.
Right?
Having good content to teach young people
why you should start a company,
how you should start a company.
And then once they're ready,
they inbound to YC.
Okay. And then?
So I was planning to go to YC,
and then I was playing a lot of games.
A lot of League of Legends at that time.
-It wasn't very...
-Games as in, like, video games?
-Yeah, like online computer games.
-Online games.
So I was a bit lazy,
so I didn't write my application.
But then I got a phone call from the CEO
of Meizu back then.
He's like, "Hey,
we want to become more international.
Do you want to help?"
So I had like two options.
Either I have to write
my application for YC,
or I can go to China to join Meizu.
I took the path of least resistance
and didn't finish my university.
I moved to Hong Kong in 2011.
-For Meizu?
-For Meizu.
Just for the...
Meizu was the Apple of China at that time.
They were the first one
to come up with a phone. Yeah.
-The first Chinese smartphone.
-Yes, it was Meizu.
They made really great MP3 players before.
That's when I got to know the company.
And then, yeah, to be a part
of the beginning of something interesting,
that's why I moved.
And also out of laziness,
to not have to write the thesis
for university
and the application for YC.
And the reason why he reached out to me
was because,
after I discovered their products in 2006,
I made an online fan community
about that company.
And it got quite big.
We got to like 70,000 users, members.
We were updating, like, people
on the new firmware updates
and customisation, and all that stuff.
And then I think he saw something in that
and decided to call.
So the founder of Meizu
called you himself?
-The CEO.
-Yeah?
-The professional CEO.
-Wow.
Okay. And you were in Nokia
for three months?
Yeah, that was before that.
Just for like a summer internship.
Right. And after Meizu?
So I didn't stay that long.
I think I stayed, like, a year.
I left because I quickly realised
that it was a family business.
So the key positions
were all family members.
And it's hard to build a very big company
like that, I think.
Was the professional CEO a family member?
He wasn't.
But imagine how hard it was for him
to do his work.
But head of finance,
head of international.
It's probably not gonna work.
So I started applying for jobs.
I applied for Xiaomi.
I applied for OPPO.
I applied for another company
that's no longer here, called Smartisan.
Yeah, yeah.
Smartisan had that... They had that...
This is a Bangalore-based startup, right?
No, no, no. This is based out of Beijing.
Yeah, back in the day.
With their Hammer UI and all that.
-Is it?
-Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
-Yeah, they did some good design.
-[Rahul] Yeah.
The Smartisan guy never responded to me.
I interviewed at Xiaomi and OPPO.
And to be honest, I think back then,
Xiaomi was a rocket ship.
Like, venture-backed.
I think Sequoia and a bunch of
really well-known VCs were backing them.
-DST and all of them. Yeah.
-DST.
So I was actually quite intimidated
by the people I met there.
Like, everybody that interviewed with me
at Xiaomi felt very aggressive,
like, results-oriented, very smart.
Whereas when I interviewed with OPPO,
I felt more like a traditional
manufacturing culture.
So selfishly,
I thought that if I joined this
less aggressive culture, I can shine more.
Did you get a job at Xiaomi as well?
I dropped out of the interview process
after we made an agreement
with OPPO at that time.
Yeah, so then OPPO also saw
the rise of Xiaomi.
Because Xiaomi was selling phones online,
they were the first
to do that in the world.
And they could undercut other people
because the distribution cost
was a lot lower.
So OPPO was also trying to find a strategy
to hedge against the rise of Xiaomi.
So they created a new brand
called OnePlus.
It was supposed to be online,
by leveraging the supply chain
that OPPO had built.
Because Xiaomi was
still building their supply chain,
they didn't have those advantages.
Is OnePlus still a part of OPPO?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So then, I had just joined.
And I was like, "Hey, I can't just join
and then you start a new company.
Like, I want to be a part
of the new company."
But then I was told that the new company
is not for international,
it's just for China.
To fight Xiaomi in China.
But I kind of made the case
that it doesn't hurt, right?
Like, if I can run international,
it's all free money.
Like, you guys can still focus on China,
and everything else is just extra
on top of that.
So that's how I, in the beginning,
got the opportunity.
I was only 24 to run international.
Were you more a marketing person
at this point
or were you more
the technical person at this point?
I was more marketing, I think.
I was kind of like a...
'Cause ever since I was 12
when I got that computer,
I started making websites.
And then I built traffic,
sold advertising.
So like just...
I had a deep desire to make money
when I was young.
So more like business/marketing,
just trying to make it work, hustling.
So that's kind of what we did.
After one year,
after launching the product at OnePlus,
China did $100 million in revenue.
International did $200 million.
China lost money,
international made money.
And then we decided to pivot
the entire company
to be more focused on international.
'Cause the competition in China
was too high.
-Yeah.
-So that was the OnePlus journey.
Spent seven years at OnePlus.
Very grateful because I was just a kid.
Like, being able to participate
in such a high CapEx industry
without needing to use my own money.
I didn't have money.
So, very grateful
for all those opportunities.
Allowing me to fail
with a lot of crazy ideas
and learning from those.
Ultimately, it's kind
of like a CPG strategy
where we buy components
from different suppliers,
we package the components,
and we have a unique position
in the market,
design, brand, and sell the product.
I had done that for seven years.
I didn't feel like
that's what I wanted to do my entire life.
I want to not only implement
other people's technology,
I also want the opportunity to eventually
impact how people use technology.
So I knew I had to go independent.
So I left in 2020, in September.
And on my birthday,
that was like a birthday gift for myself.
And started this new company
called Nothing.
It's been four and a half years.
We underestimated the difficulty
in building this, but we're still around.
So, very grateful to still have
opportunities to build a company.
But it was a bit tougher than we expected.
Are you branding your phone
by keeping it there?
Yeah, it's free exposure. [chuckles]
It has a very distinctive back, right?
Yeah, so that's our entire thing.
We...
It's a very mature industry,
and it's very hard to compete
because everybody is at very high scale.
So they have a lot of advantages.
We're not reinventing the category.
It was invented a long time ago
by somebody else.
So, for us, it's all about carving out
a small position in the market first.
We don't have to have everybody love us.
It's okay if 90% of people don't care
about us or hate us
as long as we get a niche group
of consumers who really love us.
That works in our industry
because it's so big.
Maybe it doesn't work
for smaller categories.
So, for us, we chose to differentiate
through design
because it was the fastest way
to differentiate.
If we picked technology,
it would take years to play out.
It's a lot of investment, a lot of years.
We also didn't want to reinvent
the product category.
Like, if we have crazy ideas
on a new gadget,
we might spend years
on trying to build it.
And then if we launch it,
you only have one chance.
If people don't like it, you're screwed.
Yeah, so we start with hardware design,
then we move to software design.
Now we're investing more and more
into the OS itself, into AI.
So I think, for us, it's about building
differentiation and modes over time.
But in a gradual way.
Don't move too fast because then
you might, kind of, fall off the horse.
So, for a company
headquartered in Sweden...
-UK.
The trade war will affect you how?
Tariffs?
So, now, the most direct way is...
Trump had new tariffs
for manufacturing from China.
So we manufacture the earbuds in China.
And that's like a 20% hit on our...
-[Amit] Import.
-...business plans for the US market.
So now we need to look
at alternative sources of manufacturing
like India, like Vietnam,
where it makes the most sense.
It's the first time where, you know,
every night, 10pm, I go on CNN.com.
See. He must have woken up.
What is the new news?
And then go to sleep.
But it won't affect you as much
if you're getting stuff from China
and selling in India, right?
No, it's not about that getting from...
See, because the supply chain right now
is there in China.
And then all the manufacturing now
is coming to India.
But it's not about China,
it's about India also.
Because, you know, reciprocal tariffs
and all those sort of things.
But I would assume it would hurt you most
if you're selling something in the US.
Certainly, yes.
But now we're talking about
the whole industry, you know, per se.
So, you know,
if you see the reciprocal tariff,
even on mobile phones.
It's, you know, it's 16.5%.
Right?
So if anything coming into India,
there is a duty of 16.5%.
Going to US as of now is 0%.
So reciprocal means...
At some level, doesn't it sound fair?
Like, I'm just...
I have no affinity to America.
And I'm the biggest proponent
of India built for India,
supporting Indian product.
But, if tomorrow
I was selling to country X, Y, Z.
And I was selling them something
and they were charging me 30% duty on it,
if I was buying something from them,
I would assume the same duty should apply.
Yeah, I think so.
Like, inherently, it's logical, no?
-Yeah, but I have a different view.
-Yeah.
See, it's not binary.
It's not, you know-- It depends:
How do you want to bring up your country?
What are your policies, for example?
We've been discussing about China a lot.
In China, way back, they decided
that they are not going to allow
the foreign companies.
Foreign companies can only come with JVs
because they want to build
their champions.
But then, how can they do that,
+but sell to other countries
at the scale that they are selling
and creating these deficits?
No, but they created that scale, right?
So, see, if you see examples
how great countries are built.
It's all about the companies
that, you know...
If you have great companies,
the country will prosper.
And the United States
is the biggest example.
Same thing, you know,
China worked on that way back.
And so, if Mercedes-Benz
have to, you know...
they want to sell and they say,
"Do a joint venture with our company."
Everyone, Hyundai, or...
all of them in the automobile.
Softwares... Never allowed Google,
Microsoft, you know, all those players.
They build their own companies,
and they...
We all know about that.
So, if it was like what we are discussing
that yes, sitting across the table,
okay, if you do this, I do this.
Then all these things-- Then Google
would have been there probably...
Or Amazon would have been there.
I don't think so whether
they will be having an Alibaba or not
or whether there was this Baidu,
you know, all those players
would have been existing or not.
But I'm making the presumption
that classical economic theory suggests
that free markets are the fastest way
to improve quality and get competitive.
Like, I do see your point.
I remember reading somewhere in history
that back in the day
when UK was not doing well,
they shut off from the world,
isolated their domestic industry
pre-industrial revolution
and they didn't allow foreign products
for a while
to help their internal industry to grow
to a point where it can be competitive.
So maybe there's a point to that.
But when I look at it very simplistically,
if Nikhil is selling something
and Rahul is selling something,
if each time Rahul is selling something,
there is a certain additional tax
outside of the cost of growth produced
in Rahul's margin,
the same should apply to Nikhil as well.
Certainly. So as I said, likewise,
it sounds very, it's simple, it's logical.
But, you know,
when you're building your countries,
you know, the whole narrative
changes in that.
And that's how all these FTA treaties
are being worked out.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
-Yeah.
They've supported the ecosystem also
in a big way,
if you look at all Chinese companies.
I mean, all, like-- You're talking about
Internet companies,
they never allowed US companies
to come in.
In fact, there is no Uber also there.
Amazon also had to sell out
their business there.
I mean, somehow
they're protected for the Indian--
their Chinese companies to grow, actually.
That's how, I mean,
that's how their whole strategy,
you know, has been worked out.
So, today, we talk
about semiconductors here.
They started working
on semiconductors 20 years back.
-[Carl] Yeah.
-And now the results are coming.
They're like 3,200 companies
working on semiconductors.
Most patents are being filed there. So...
Carl, can I ask you another question?
Mm-hmm.
For a kid who moved from China to the US
with two PhD parents,
and a deep desire to make money
while young,
where does that come from?
I'm sure there's some childhood trauma,
but I've never explored that path
to understand more.
What do you suspect it could be?
I think just being... not fitting in,
the feeling of not fitting in,
you know, like...
But you're a young, good-looking guy.
Why not fitting in?
'Cause I grew up in white societies
as a minority.
Racist? Back then?
I think it's not, like, explicitly racist,
but it's like, you're just
not the same, right?
Like, I could tell.
I think there's something to do with that.
US more so or Sweden?
-I think both.
-Is that all?
Childhood?
I think childhood trauma
is a big part of it,
but I haven't gone to a therapist
to unpack all of that.
There's also, I think, a fear of death.
You know, I remember
when I was very young,
I was very angry at my parents
for giving birth to me.
Because now I have to die,
and that's terrible.
"Why did you do this?"
-This is at what age?
-Eight, I think.
So there's like this fear.
And my best answer is, like,
this is going to be a journey.
Life is a journey.
I got the conclusion
from the movie Life of Pi.
[Rahul] Mm-hmm.
The kid is on a boat,
meets a lot of animals,
but actually it didn't happen.
Just made it up
to make the journey more pleasant.
So it's all about the journey,
and I think by doing something ambitious,
doing something different,
the journey will be a lot more fun.
So that's also a driver, I think.
Do you feel like nothing has meaning?
Are you nihilistic,
stoic in your thinking?
I think the journey has meaning,
but I don't think
there's much beyond death.
Well, thank you.
Rahul, would you like to go next?
Tell us about your life.
Start from the beginning, from Delhi.
-You know...
-I know, but they don't know.
So, yeah, I grew up in Delhi.
Born in a middle class family,
father was a school teacher,
mother was a housewife.
Youngest kid in the family.
Growing up, just wanted to do something.
Nobody was doing business in my family.
Because, you know, all...
But I don't know how I picked up that,
but that I will always do something
of my own.
This was probably when I was...
maybe, if I remember,
around 10 years or 12 years,
I just wanted to do something of my own.
And I was pretty clear
that I will not work for anybody else.
Despite knowing that there is no capital.
Why?
No... A school teacher,
how much capital will you have?
No, why will you not work for anyone else?
Because I just thought that
I want to do something different in life,
in terms of something meaningful.
I am not saying impact,
because, at that time,
it was not about impact,
it was about survival.
You said this to me personally
at different points.
Even when I sat with you
and had the fund raise,
dilution conversation.
You always said, we won't raise X,
because control will go away.
Or we will have somebody else
we are answerable to.
Why did you never want to work
for anyone else?
And why do you never
want to give up control
or your position in that ecosystem?
Yeah, so I think we will break up
in these two parts.
First, not work for anyone,
because I wanted, as I said,
to do something different,
something big, something meaningful.
And I...
-Jai, get me some coffee, please.
-Yes, sir.
I remember this conversation
with my friends at that time,
and we used to go and play in parks,
that I will do something of my own.
And they would also ask the same question.
But I think there was a deep desire
in terms of wanted to...
wanted to be known for something.
Why?
This is the problem with him.
No, but...
So why?
Maybe because when I was growing up,
I saw, you know...
how people were and how things were
going on in terms of whatever access.
So because we were having
very limited access to things.
So you are 50 now.
Your formative years were '90s?
-When India was opening up?
-Yeah.
Yeah. You know, end of, let's say...
you can say...
When I started working, it was 2000, yeah.
Right. What did you see then
which made you want to do these things?
So first, you know, I just told my dad...
he said, "What do you want to do?"
I said, "I just want to do
something of my own."
-He said, "What?"
-I said, "I have no idea.
But buy me a computer."
Because all my friends, whether they were
doing civil or mechanical or electronics,
everybody was going in software.
So I said I want to do
something in software.
[Nikhil] Mm-hmm.
And bought that computer.
And I clearly remember
when I bought that computer,
I had no idea about computers
at that time.
Windows came,
and Windows was there at that time.
So I went to the guy
who was selling the computer.
He said, "What computer do you want?"
I said, "It should have lot of icons
on the screen."
It used to have shortcuts, actually.
I never knew about that.
I said, "It should have lot of icons
on the screen."
And that's how...
So he laughed at me.
"He has no idea."
He gave me.
And then I bought a book.
"Learn VB in 21 days."
-Visual Basic.
-Visual Basic, yeah.
I wrote a program in three days.
Hello world, this, that.
I thought, "Okay, I know programming now."
My friend came, he saw the book.
He said, "You've done this?"
I said, "Yeah, I made a program."
He said, "Can I take this?"
I said, "Yeah, take it."
So he took that book away.
That guy later became my partner.
So the story...
And he is a core techie guy.
Coding only.
So I tell him
you become a coder because of me.
So, by virtue of buying that computer,
that decision,
we started working on...
So I started looking for opportunities
in software.
That, what can I do in software.
2000 was like the software bust time, no?
Yeah, the dot-com.
So, this is like '99 or so.
You started Micromax in 2000.
No, actually 1998.
1998, with the three friends.
-Four friends.
-[Nikhil] Four friends.
Started with three, fourth came
from US and then joined here.
Then started, you know,
working on software,
just worked on a lot of SAP.
That went down.
Then started working on e-commerce,
that Y2K problems and all that.
So, at that time, I was in US.
So I was the BD guy,
doing marketing and sales,
and rest of the other guys were
doing the coding and everything.
So, at that time,
we wrote a lot of B2B engines
for e-commerce and doing all that.
So, you know, that was the time
when Sun Microsystems was there,
and it was like we had the dot in dot-com.
And then that market went down,
and then we realised
that it is a very fast-moving market,
and you have to, you know,
constantly change yourself
very quickly to be relevant.
We moved on to embedded technology,
started working
with University of Irvine, California.
They had an R&D centre on embedded.
We started working together.
And, at that time, Nokia, in India,
was looking
for a machine-to-machine partner, M2M.
HCL was their partner
for their mobile phones,
and they were looking for someone
for a machine-to-machine.
And we got introduced.
And they said,
"Would you like to do something?"
You know, we used to write device drivers,
doing, you know, work on
a lot of different architectures.
ARM, PowerPC and all that.
Said okay, started doing that.
And then, one fine day,
I was just sitting with one of the guys
from Nokia, Finland.
And he showed me a product.
I said, "What is this?"
He said, "This is one of the products
wherein if you put a SIM card in this,
you can connect a telephone
along with this,
and it will replace the landline."
So I said, "Good.
So why did you make this product?"
He said, "In Finland, you know,
because there are a lot of snow
and everything,
you can't lay the copper wire...
the telephone.
So you can put a SIM card in this
and connect a phone
and then you have a landline,
because this phone is going to be fixed,
nobody's going to take it."
He said, "Can you do something with this?"
I said, "India, how much would this...
we don't have market
for something like this."
So I took that product from him.
I said, "Okay, let me just play."
And we found an opportunity and I went
back to him the next day and said,
we would like to power
the payphone machines.
Yes.
So we went to Airtel and all those guys...
and all the GSM players,
said, we can power payphones
with one SIM card.
At that time, payphone in India
was only MTNL and BSNL,
government companies laying down the wire.
You mean the STD centre?
STD centre, STD meets.
So they said, "Okay, how can you do that?"
We said, "This is, you know,
with that phone,"
because we were writing device drivers
and everything,
we took that machine,
change the code and everything,
put our software, attach the landline,
and say, you put a SIM card,
and you can work.
They said, good.
And then it was also a solution,
good solution for corporates,
because corporates, if they want to have
a connection straight away,
you can just, you know, integrate it
with the EPABX systems and all.
So it worked for them.
And from a small Delhi-based company,
we started growing to all the states
and started supporting all the carriers.
Airtel, that time, it was Hutch
and Idea and all.
We started supplying to them.
The business was started doing
reasonably okay.
From three, four crore rupees annually,
we started doing around 100 crore rupees.
-And, you know, very quickly we scaled up.
-What year was this?
This, I think 2003.
Hundred crore then
is like thousand crore now.
More.
A lot more.
So we were happy.
We thought that okay, we have arrived,
something is happening.
So that business was doing well.
So one day I got a call
from this Finnish guy.
I remember his name, Henry.
So Henry said, "Rahul, can we meet?"
I said, "Absolutely."
Said, "Why?"
He said, "I have good news
and bad news for you."
I said, "Tell me what?"
He said, "No, come over to my home."
Went to his home.
He said, "What do you like to listen?"
I said, "Tell me the bad news first."
He said, "Bad news is that
Nokia, we have sold
the whole machine-to-machine business."
What year was this?
It's 2003.
2003, 2004.
Back then they were killing it, right?
Nokia was the market leader?
Number 1 to number 10 was Nokia.
Then started 11, 12, 13. Yeah.
So I said, "What is the good news?"
He said, "Good news is that
as Nokia, now we are coming
into car accessories business.
We want you to distribute
our car accessories."
So those car accessories, you know,
they had speakers.
You could put in those,
that lighter socket.
-[Nikhil] Mm-hmm.
-Oh.
And connect the wire with your Nokia phone
and then while you are driving,
the speaker, you know, you can talk.
A pretty interesting solution.
They had a speaker
you can put in your seat
and the mic and, you know,
the speakers will come like this.
So all those sort of...
So I said, "No, we are not interested
in the accessories business."
So the technology was there with us
completely because we developed...
So we made our own box,
our fixed wireless terminal.
Stamped Micromax on top of it
and went back to Airtel.
We said, "Nokia is no more,
this is Micromax.
Would you like to use it?"
Same terminal.
All of those guys, Airtel and Vodafone,
they used to know me from Nokia.
In their phone also, my phone number
was saved as "Rahul Nokia".
So they said, "Okay."
Up north there is a shrine, Vaishno Devi,
they said, "You install it there."
Because it works 24 hours, the pay phone,
you know, it works 24 hours.
-In "Vaishnav" Devi?
-Vaishno Devi.
Yeah? I have been there,
that walk where you are climbing the hill
and there are STD booths
on that path, right?
Yes, yes.
So we installed our machines there.
First machines in Vaishno Devi?
-Yes.
-How come?
Because that's what Airtel said,
that, you know, if you install--
Because the traffic is so high,
that if it works there,
if it can take the load,
then it will work anywhere.
We said, "Okay."
We installed it there, 20 days.
The revenue from...
Because see, for the operators,
it was a killer product
because their ARPU from one SIM card,
multiple people are using one SIM card,
the ARPU is massive.
Thousands of rupees from one SIM card.
With an individual, it's...
Versus what did they have before that?
Nothing.
There were STD booths before that, right?
MTNL... powered by MTNL and BSNL.
Hmm.
To run an...
You know, to install an STD booth
where there was no MTNL, BSNL line,
where there was only...
if there was a GSM signal coming in,
you can power that.
And so then they gave us a contract.
This is pre
"people having cell phones", right?
Significantly pre.
No, cell phones were there at that time.
In 2005-06, they were pretty much there.
Yeah, the cell phones were there.
No smartphones,
all the feature phones were there.
So, you are saying the difference was
it got cheaper?
Yeah, it was difficult to get.
So, you have to apply to MTNL,
get a license and then, you know, install.
-Painful that time.
-[Rahul] Right.
The government.
The government thing and then,
you know, they will come,
and if there was no line...
Imagine if there is no...
If it is a village.
See, they have to lay down the whole line.
It was a costly affair and time-taking.
And for us, if there is a signal coming,
we will say, about five minutes,
we will install it.
So, that business started doing quite well
and then we became a de facto number one
on GSM fixed wireless terminal phones
in India.
And started operating offices pan-India,
became a pan-India player,
service network and everything.
So, we learnt a lot there.
Applying, you know, sale tax numbers
and everything,
you know, like the whole...
how the business works.
This is till 2006.
2000, yeah. 2006-07.
Mm.
One fine day, I got a call
from a senior guy from Airtel.
He said, "Oh, there is a problem
in a machine.
Can you go and check it?"
That, by that time, you know,
our business grew
to like 400 crores per annum.
So, we were doing, like...
Did you have liquidity?
Did you take out money from the business?
No, we were just keeping the money.
But I still... I just remember
that time BMW came to India.
I bought a BMW 3 Series
and thought, "Yes, this is it."
In 2006.
So, that time, then my...
That was the first time
when my parents realised
that our son is doing something.
Because otherwise, they used to ask me,
"Son, what are you doing?"
I said, "Fixed wireless terminals
and all that..."
Yeah, so coming back to the story,
so that guy called me.
So, I said, he said,
"It's in Bengal somewhere,
why don't you go and check?"
I said, "I'll send some engineer."
He said,
"No, it's a senior-level escalation,
can you go yourself?" I said, "Okay."
Took a plane, landed in Kolkata,
took a cab,
five hours drive near Bangladesh border.
Saw, this all, Krishnanagar,
Nadia and all...
Just saw the problem, fixed it
and then in the evening coming back...
to catch a flight
in late night in Kolkata.
In mid, I saw, it's a village
where there was no electricity.
But there was an Airtel ISD PCO booth.
So, I asked my cab driver, I said,
"Bhaiya, can you stop the car?"
I went inside the booth.
And, because I knew
that if it is an Airtel,
must be using our equipment.
So, I said, "There is no electricity
in the village,
how are you running this booth?"
He showed me a big truck battery there.
He said, "Sir, you draw power from here."
I said, "Fine."
We were not making phones those days,
I was having a Nokia phone.
There was no signal in my phone.
I said, "There is no signal in my phone,
how are you drawing the signals?"
He showed me a big 20 dB gain antenna,
mounted on a pole on his terrace.
Typical Indian jugaad.
He said,
"Sir, the signal comes from here."
I got more intrigued. I said, "Fine,
there is no electricity,
how do you charge the battery?"
He said, "Eleven kilometres away
there is a village,
there is electricity.
In the night, when I shut down
my shutter, I go there,
charge in the night
and then come back in the morning."
I said, "How much money do you make?"
He said, "Around, let's say,
4,000 rupees a month."
Now, 4,000 rupees a month in a village,
there is no electricity,
no entertainment, no TV, is big.
Then I was travelling
in the interiors of Bihar,
and I saw people charging,
you know, asking 25 rupees or 40 rupees
to charge your phone.
Because at those days there were
different pins for different phones.
I remember, yeah.
Different for Motorola
and different for Nokia,
those round pins and all...
before everything standardised.
I said, "Why is this?"
He said, "Because there is no electricity
at home, people come, pay and charge."
It's very expensive, right?
-For a charge.
-Yeah. At that time it is very much.
But see, those days
mobile phones were not common like this
because the call was not free.
Today, probably you are paying for data.
You know, that time the call
was expensive.
I went back, sat with our guys,
worked a lot on the GSM technology.
I said, "Guys,
why don't you make a mobile phone?"
What year was this?
This is 2007.
So, the first reaction from everyone
internally was, "Are you crazy?
Who is going to fight these Nokias
and Samsungs and Motorolas in the world?"
And they said,
"Why do you want to do that?
I mean, we are doing so well.
You are driving a BMW 3 Series,
so why do you want
to disturb the apple cart?
Why?
I said, "No, I think, you know, the food
is being cooked in different countries.
We need a flavour in India.
You know, it's somewhere in Finland
or in Korea, but we need Indian flavours."
Anyway, so fought a lot internally.
And then they said...
Fought with your co-founders,
your partners.
Yes, yes, yes.
They said, "Okay, 10,000 phones you make.
If it works, it's fine,
otherwise our business is doing well."
So, this is like casino money
they gave me.
They said, "You go and play, if it works,
it's okay. Otherwise you pay."
How much money was there?
10,000 phones,
even if a phone was 2,000 rupees,
you multiply, it was what?
-Twenty crores?
-Yeah, all that, yeah.
I said, okay.
So, we sat with the team and said,
"Guys, let's make a phone
with long battery life,
one month of battery backup,
because of all these experiences."
And...
And that's how
the first Micromax phone came.
And the tagline for the phone
was "Mobile ka Baap."
Because the standby time was 30 days.
Since we worked a lot.
Now, herein, my philosophy is that
whatever you are doing in life,
nothing goes waste.
Whatever we were, you know, I'm just,
you know, scrambling my whole story here.
But in between,
we worked a lot on SIM card,
with Schlumberger and all those guys
for one, two years.
Nothing came out of it.
Nothing came out of all those things.
But all those things we implemented
when we were making phones.
So, normal phones take
seven to eight milliamperes,
you know, per second as power.
We worked on embedded,
we made it two to three milliamperes
per second.
And that's how we created
the same form factor.
At that time,
the battery was 700, 600 mAh.
We put some 1,800 mAh,
2,000 mAh that time.
Same form factor.
Made a phone
and then went to the distributors.
Now, the real problem started from there.
Because all the distributors were like,
all big distributors.
Like, even the Delhi distributor of Nokia
was bigger than us.
We were doing pan-India business,
fixed wireless and all, but...
Because Nokia was so successful.
So, we said, "Now we make mobile phones,
why don't you distribute?"
And globally, it was only, you know,
all those four, five
international brand names.
There was no local brand doing anything
in the world at that time.
Even if it was there, they were not like
very, very successful brands.
So, they just offered us a cup of coffee
and said, "Good friends, but sorry."
We were not able to find a distributor
after making the phone.
In 2000?
'07, '08 now. This is '08.
And so, we went back to...
After a lot of...
there is no distributor, how do we...
So, we went back to our fixed wireless.
-Did you already make the inventory?
-Huh?
-Yeah, already it was with us.
And we went back to our distributors
of fixed wireless terminals,
payphone guys, who were selling payphones.
We said, "Now, we have this.
Would you like to sell this?"
He said, "Sir, give it to us, keep it,
if it sells, we will see."
Because they were not
the mobile phone guys.
We gave the phones to them.
Ten days, the phones were sold out.
Why? Because of the differentiation.
There was nothing like that in the market.
-Battery was the differentiation.
-Yes.
Which you learnt from travelling
to remote places.
Yes.
And the form factor was nice,
it was not bulky,
so we didn't try to change much
on the form factor and all.
The repeat order started coming in.
That's the same--
And then everything went crazy.
Things blew up, right?
-Things blew up.
-I remember seeing Micromax everywhere.
Yeah, then things became crazy.
And you started marketing like mad
at this point, right?
No, so then we sat and said,
"Okay, what is it that we want to do?
And how do we want to do it?"
Because there could be
a lot of distractions.
So, and we were still learning
at that stage,
it's not that we perfected,
we were still learning.
So, one day I saw my cook
using three SIM cards.
This is the time
when all the new operators got license,
and everybody was selling
new schemes every day.
Uninor and all the new guys came in.
So, I said,
"Why are you using three SIM cards?"
He said, "Sir, one for local calling."
I said, "Fine. Second SIM card?"
He said, "To call my native village."
I said, "Third SIM card?"
He said, "Incoming is free,
so I am not throwing it away."
I went back to our guys and said,
"Guys, why don't we make a phone
with a dual SIM card?"
They said, "No, two phones
only rich people can afford."
I said, "That's not the consumer truth.
These are the guys
who are using two phones.
So, can we make
in a single phone, you know,
simultaneously talking on the GSM signal?"
So, with one single baseband,
we created the dual SIM phone that time.
And I still remember,
I showcased it at one distributor meet,
and everybody stood
and clapped, and they said, "Sir..."
That was the time when we realised
that we have to find the gaps
in the market.
It's very interesting.
You are finding your gaps
from your driver, your maid,
from going to villages.
Everyday life.
It's like you are learning that,
you are just observing
and then, you know, finding those gaps.
Do you see any gaps today?
Multiple.
Name one, top of the list.
I can go on and on,
but these are all different,
different ideas.
I went crazy, I will tell you, you know,
in that in terms of finding gaps.
So, we said, okay, we want to make a...
So, that's how we made first phone
for girls with Swarovski.
At that time,
the phones for girls in India
was only by Dolce & Gabbana, by Motorola.
Now, how many people can afford
a Dolce & Gabbana in this country?
So, we made a phone,
you know, with Swarovski.
Now, again, these very interesting
consumer stories here.
We launched that phone
because our team insisted,
"No, this is Swarovski,
it has to be expensive."
And after a lot of, you know...
I said, "No, just make it in the reach of,
let's say, common people."
We priced at 5,000 rupees at that time.
Is that the way in India?
I remember watching an interview of yours
when I was researching for today.
When you were talking
about the form factor on your phone,
you said-- What was his name?
-Jesper?
-[Carl] Yeah.
He said that whenever
you look a product...
at a product for two seconds
and look away and you have to draw it,
you should have
that one distinctive design element.
That's a very different school of thought
from the more utilitarian school
of thought here, right?
Is this what works for India
and that works for the affluent?
No, see, this is a time
when there were only feature phones,
-there were no smartphones.
-[Nikhil] Right.
So, how do you differentiate
feature phones?
Right.
I think we're at a stage in the industry
where it's hyper-competitive.
-Yes.
-Every user need has been fully explored.
Now, it is all evolved, like in laptops,
it's already at the ceiling.
-How will you... You can't reinvent.
-Right.
This was a time
when everything was evolving.
[Nikhil] Right.
We're at a different maturity stage
of the industry, I think.
-[Rahul] Yes, yes.
-Right. Right.
The phone was also a dream
when you came in.
Nobody had phones that time.
2008, by then, a lot of people had phones.
Yeah, but the penetration was not high
because the GSM rates
and everything was quite expensive.
How big did it get in terms of numbers?
From selling 10,000 phones a month,
we were selling three million phones
a month.
How big was the overall market
at that time?
Total market less than 100 million
in India.
Put together, less than that.
So, you were selling
3% of the total market a month.
-No, no, no.
-[Amit] 20%?
[Rahul] No, no, no.
-[Carl] A third?
-No, no, no.
When we were doing three million,
at that time, our market share
was around 25%, plus, plus.
That's crazy.
You were sponsoring cricket,
you were sponsoring everything
back then, right?
Yes, so our big bet
was on cricket and music.
Because that's what the youth was into.
And you said, a blanket on whatever is...
Yeah. And that worked also.
-And this stayed for a while?
-Yeah.
For a couple of years?
-This crazy growth trajectory?
Yes.
Interestingly, we come back
to our tariff questions,
the tariff conversation
we were having earlier,
because that kind of
was the problem, right?
The Chinese competition
which came into India post.
Yes, so that was a time...
And again, I will answer a couple
of other questions
which you were asking about
why you wanted to and all.
So there were a lot of learnings also
in between.
So for example, when Meizu
was raising the round with Alibaba,
we were deep down
with Alibaba at that time.
Yeah. Raising the round and...
-So our paths have been intertwined.
-Yes, and a pretty big one.
At that time, we were raising, what,
around 800 million dollars
around at that time.
This is in 2000...
'14 and secondary, most of it.
-Wow!
-[laughter]
So it was because the business
was throwing so much of cash.
-Right.
-Yeah, so we said we don't need money,
but, you know, at that time,
everybody wanted to connect.
-You know, I remember...
-You could buy a few more BMWs.
Few more than few more.
[laughter]
So this was going well.
And then we realised that...
So we didn't take that money.
We said, "Okay, no,
we are doing quite well."
We said, "We already have so much of..."
Bad decision in hindsight?
So we thought that, you know,
if we have taken care of the Finnish
and the Koreans at that time--
Later on, because that time we never knew,
but in 2016-17, you know,
that was the time
when the, you know, the Chinese brands
started coming in.
So we thought, you know,
we have taken care of them.
So we can, you know,
we'll take care of this also.
It's okay. We'll go head on.
But, you know, that was
a very, very different game.
Because, you know, when the Chinese came,
they came up with so much of gunpowder.
And you never know that
where the gunpowder is coming from.
And whether there is an end to it or not.
Do you think the government
subsidised them to come in that manner?
-Their government?
-[Rahul] So... Yes.
So there, as I said,
you never know, because, you know,
there were so many schemes
which were running there.
And not only the central level scheme,
but also the state level scheme.
The companies were funded
by the states also.
So...
So we said, okay, we'll see.
And then we started fighting.
It was a price, you know,
price battle started going on.
You know, when the Xiaomis of the world
started coming in and then the...
So before that, we were fighting,
let's say, with the Samsungs
and the Motos
or the Sony Ericssons of the world.
Doing pretty well.
And then you start...
suddenly you start having a competition
wherein if you are selling, let's say,
at 100 rupees,
somebody comes and says,
hey, I'm 90 rupees.
[Nikhil] And if you say 80,
they'll say 70.
[Rahul] They'll say 70.
So that's how it's a race to the bottom.
And then suddenly
they were burning a lot of money.
-But can I ask a structural question?
-Yes. Yes.
While it seems like a race to the bottom,
because of the scale of manufacturing
they have,
is the cost of production in China
inherently so much lower
that at 80 rupees you can't make money,
but at 70 rupees they can?
So that's, yeah, that's true,
because it's the whole supply chain
which is, you know,
which is established there.
So probably what we were discussing.
That if their BOM is 100, your BOM is 120.
But you would also be importing
that time or manufacturing?
No. So, see, we established
our first plant in India in 2010.
-So you started early.
-Way before Make In India started.
So, but the components
was coming from there, right?
And at that time, all these brands
what we see right now,
they were not there.
So they started coming in, for example,
all the brands were there in DVD players
or MP3 players, and then they started
coming on that.
And then the price war started.
And so, and we also went into it.
But somehow with the whole supply chain
and everything, then you slowly,
you know, access to all these things
started getting restricted.
So, for example,
why Micromax became successful?
Because in this...
in the industry where we are in,
you are already, you know,
you're looking for a differentiation.
For example, if I was designing a phone,
my question to myself was:
Why will I buy,
or somebody will buy this phone?
What is different in this one? Why?
Why...
Why somebody will not buy another phone?
So, you know, that's how
the differentiators were coming in.
And differentiator
was not only on the feature,
but also on who's going to come up
with the latest chipset first.
Who's going to come up with--
If there is a 50 megapixel camera,
who's the first guy coming up
with a 50 megapixel camera?
If there was a fast charging coming,
who's the first guy
to come up with fast charging?
And the distributors used to look at,
you know, look at us that,
okay, they will come up
with something new every quarter and...
So when that access
started getting stopped?
Government stopped the access?
No, no, it's not the government, you know,
because the scale shifted somewhere else.
Right.
And they preferred supplying
to their own companies than to you?
Right. And so the numbers and everything,
because their numbers
started growing up in...
Because China itself
became a very big market
and the scale was, you know, became big.
Because, you know,
there are a lot of theories about...
about Micromax in the market.
This happened, that happened.
Everybody can come up with their own.
Yeah. What is the theory...
the most popular one?
No, I keep on hearing different one.
Oh, they went, you know,
into luxury segment
or there was no R&D. You know, all this.
But I don't know
how many people know, we...
When Nokia got sold, we had the...
You know, we took all the top Nokia,
they had the gold, you know, division.
We got all gold guys from Nokia
and doing the R&D at that time.
But whatever this was happening,
all this, you know, coming from China,
it was a global phenomenon.
So it was not only that we were affected.
All the other, let's say,
there were other brands
in Turkey or in Malaysia,
other places,
you know, everybody got affected.
And I think in 2019 odd or so,
we realised that, you know,
you can burn money,
but you know, you can burn money
till the point you know
that I'm going to win the game.
Right.
But if the other person is having
an unlimited supplies,
like a bottomless pit.
A bit like today, no?
All the loss-making startups in India,
all competing downwards.
Yeah.
And see, and we build Micromax,
let's say, from day one, making money
and doing that, you know,
never raised any capital.
Slowly, slowly, you know, build it
and whatever, you know, we raised.
Said no to $800 million in 2014.
-So if you ask me in hindsight that.
-You should have taken it.
Yeah, because see, that time we never knew
that you had to create a war chest.
[Nikhil] Yeah.
You create a war chest
and say, "Okay, now let's, you know--"
Biggest bull run in Indian equity markets.
Imagine you put that in equity.
2014 to today.
Yeah. So, you know, with $800 million,
you sit on the casino table
and say, okay, now play.
-Yeah.
-[Carl] Yeah.
Yeah, so, and then after...
Yeah, in 2009,
then we realised that, you know,
either we'll, you know,
if we keep on burning with this space,
we will get finished.
We'll get completely burned out.
We will not have any capital left.
So we said,
"Okay, let's stop burning money.
And wait for your turn.
And start focusing on manufacturing."
And that's how
we started building more factories
in 19, 20, 21, and now.
And that's how we, you know,
pivoted on the manufacturing game.
And the whole idea is that unless
and until you have access to supply chain.
For example, if today I have to make
a triple screen fold...
I don't have access to the screen.
So how do you come up with the latest?
-When you say access to supply chain...
-Yes.
...you're talking about
the company in China that gives--
That makes the screen. Okay?
That makes the display.
But the other bigger company there,
for example, let's say Huawei,
has a triple screen.
Huawei has already blocked that
and said, "Okay, for one year
you can't give to anybody else.
Because I am promising you
this much of volume."
So, Nikhil,
how it happens is all partners,
like supply chain partners,
screen, battery, or processor,
they work with bigger brands,
and everybody has an alpha customer
on their list.
Let's say Huawei would be
the alpha customer on the list.
So every first technology
would go to Huawei.
He will block the capacity,
and when it is over, it will come to us.
New technology means all resources
they will depute to Huawei.
And then it will come to the market,
and Huawei will take the first leg
of new product, which is launching,
which goes for chipsets,
screens, sensor, across.
But we will never be able to make that
on our own.
For anybody wanting to start
a consumer electronic company,
you can't make that triple-fold screen
that this supply chain vendor
is making for Huawei.
No, if you are, like, a "startup" startup,
it is too hard to make.
It requires a lot of money and probably--
[Amit] He might be making it.
-It's at a later stage.
-He can answer.
-Yes, later stage.
-It's at a later stage.
So if you look at Apple's strategy now,
they feel like they're bleeding
too much margin to their suppliers.
-[Amit] Yeah.
-So they're doing vertical integration.
So they are developing
their own technology,
their own screen,
their own whatever processor.
I thought they're outsourcing more
to Foxconn and--
-For manufacturing.
-It's only for EMS.
-What is EMS?
-Assembling.
-You would attempt better.
-Just for assembling?
-Really?
-[Rahul] Yes.
So Apple used to be
a consumer-focused company, right?
So in the start, they were very small.
They were competing against IBM,
and, like, big PC companies.
So they targeted a niche consumer,
the creative consumer.
And they positioned the personal computer
as a bicycle for the mind.
So if you have an idea,
you can use your Apple computer
to manifest that idea.
In the '90s,
they started acquiring software companies
to then create their own suite
of content creation tools
like iMovie, GarageBand.
It's all to cater to the creative, right?
Beautiful industrial design,
great software that helps you
take your ideas into reality.
After some time,
they really captured the creatives.
-Like, they had a partnership with Adobe.
-Yeah.
Adobe worked better on Apple computers.
So once they got the creatives,
the brand became really cool.
So normal people,
they also wanted to feel creative.
So therefore,
"I buy Apples 'cause I'm a creative."
But then...
So they won the consumer battle.
And then to keep growing the share price,
they needed to take the value
back from their suppliers
'cause they had outsourced
a lot of the components.
So in the recent ten years,
it's been a vertical integration strategy.
Now they do their own processors.
Actually, what we talked about before,
they get the TSMC latest...
There you need allocation.
Yeah, they get the first batch
before everybody else.
They get the latest technology from TSMC
for Apple silicon.
Now they're doing a mini...
Is it mini-LED or micro-LED?
They have their own display technology.
It's deployed on the Apple Watch already.
The mini-LED.
[Carl] Mini-LED.
So it's very hard
for anyone to compete, right?
It's a very tough industry.
And everybody who is an incumbent today
has been around for 30, 40, 50, 100 years?
Apple is, like, 50, I think. 50-ish.
-Samsung is older.
-Yeah.
But Samsung's smartphone business
should be similar, maybe 25 years.
The Chinese brand, maybe 15 years.
So every ten years, the cards will flip.
[Rahul] Yeah, so I think
this is a very interesting thing...
if you're talking about competing,
or nobody can come up.
-We came up at that time.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
Defying the odds, you know.
Globally there was, you know, no brand,
like a local brand who came and became...
Like, we were top ten in the world,
and that's how it was going.
I still feel that can happen. Right?
But we never realised that governments
have to, you know, play a role in it.
Because at that time we never thought
about the governments and the countries.
Now we realise about countries,
governments, and everything.
-What should the government do?
-Yeah.
For example,
you take our automobile industry in India.
I think we have done a great job there.
All the Hondas and Suzukis came initially,
did joint ventures
with the Indian companies.
Created a lot of ecosystem
of supply chain.
-You see all the component players.
-Yeah.
Right?
And now if you see
our automobile industry,
we are supplying to the world now.
We are a very mature industry
in automobile.
And if the same thing were true
for mobile phones,
what happened to Micromax
would not have happened.
Maybe, you know,
the world order would have been different
in terms of the brands.
-Right.
-Yeah.
So, any industry, you need to see
that you want to make local champions.
So for example,
today in the worldly order,
imagine if there are two, three
local champions coming out of India
who can make a global impact.
I think it would be great for the country.
[Nikhil] But if we...
There's a flip side to that argument
that if we become protectionist
of local industry...
do we continue to get foreign money
into the country?
So I'm not saying that you stop.
I'm saying you allow collaborations.
Collaborations where you need to learn.
-Collaborations with technology transfer.
-[Rahul] Absolutely.
-IP transfer.
-Yes.
Work on IP transfer, and then you learn.
So in four, five years, you will learn.
Right? See, I said,
"Auto happened, you know, at that time."
Now today you have all the local companies
ruling the roost.
Similarly, you learn here,
five years, six years.
So, a lot of people ask me,
"Okay, can you do this?
Can you make a, you know,
very complex phone?"
We said,
"Yes, we can make a very complex phone.
But maybe it will take five years,
six years in India to do that.
But with collaboration,
I can start learning right away.
And then can do it very, very quickly."
And how much did this three million phones
a number fall to
when things went bad at Micromax?
No, no, it totally started coming.
Every year it started coming up,
we started losing.
At that time,
all the Indian brands were more than 50%
of the Indian market share.
-Right. Right.
-Which completely got decimated.
What was the low for Micromax
as a company?
Which year was the low?
I think that time in 2019, 2020,
in terms of the brand--
-Just before COVID.
-Yeah.
-We said, "Okay, no more..."
-And then COVID could not have been fun.
[laughter]
-Right?
-Yeah.
When you go from a peak to a low,
what is the one lesson that we can learn
from your experience
that you have learnt already?
Today, our manufacturing is bigger than,
you know,
the revenue is way more bigger
than what we used to do in our brand.
Which probably
not most of the people will know.
But we are doing way more better
than what we used to do earlier.
No, I know the Micromax comebacks.
No, I know. But I am coming.
So, in between, you know,
you are trying multiple things.
I think what has worked for us,
you know, we later realised that,
stick to your core.
What did you realise is your core?
So my core was to remain with tech.
So, for example,
I'll not start a real estate company.
Real estate is doing good, go there.
Or something else is doing good, go there.
Or something.
So this thing was already there.
The whole manufacturing,
the factories what we created,
you know, for Micromax, was already there.
So why don't we build on that?
And start doing for others.
That helped, and that's how we...
So at Micromax time,
we were having probably
one or two factories.
Now, we have four large factories,
fifth coming up, and then--
You just acquired a new factory as well.
And now you are scaling.
Do you feel like you are stronger
the second time around
than you were in the beginning?
Less oblivious, more aware.
Like, I feel like
once somebody is scarred,
the next time they're a little bit
more differentiated in their approach.
This weekend I was thinking that.
-Believe me.
-In Goa?
Yeah. [chuckles]
I was thinking about that.
About something I used to do earlier.
And then I again thought,
"I am still doing the same thing."
Which is?
Taking big bets, going risky, and all.
Like, you know, once you start doing,
I said, "Okay, no, no, no more, no more.
Stick, stick to your, you know..."
-But--
-Risk is intoxicating, no?
It is.
While you are taking it?
Yeah.
-It gives you a high?
-Yeah.
And believe that, "Okay, no, no, no,
this is something I think you can do,
you can crack it."
And then you go for it.
And because it has worked earlier,
then you start thinking.
Then you know every time
it is going to work,
which is not the case.
So, yes, while, you know,
we are doing this, I am more aware.
But the core is that, nah?
So once your core is that,
you will want to take bigger bets,
thinking that,
"Okay, nothing happened earlier.
You know, you came out of it, see?"
So I think that's the DNA.
As long as the bets don't go wrong,
they always get bigger,
-organically.
-Yeah.
If you had to bet money
on some entrepreneur today,
wouldn't you pick somebody
who has screwed up a couple of times
versus somebody
who is doing it for the first time?
Screwed up a couple of times,
but eventually made it.
-Yeah, that is important.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
Yeah.
If eventually made it,
then, yeah, that's fine.
I feel like this prophecy is true
for all life.
I like people
who are a little bit screwed up
in all domains.
When I meet a man
and I don't know what his vice is,
I assume the worst.
I'd rather know, "Okay, this is my friend,
he is [bleep] up like this, I am aware.
I am [bleep] up like that, he is aware."
This friendship is good.
When somebody comes to me
and projects the idealistic mask,
then I worry.
Because we are all the same
at the core of it, you know.
We are all inherently flawed as people.
-100%.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
Yeah.
But thank you for that.
[laughter]
All right, Mr. Amit, you're next.
-Tell us.
-I think--
I'm very interested in your story
'cause both of their stories--
-Him, I know firsthand.
-Yeah.
And his, I have read a bit.
But your story is not so much out there.
So I come from a small town,
Bikaner, Rajasthan.
And typical middle-class family.
Father used to work with bank.
Which bank?
State Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur,
if you would have heard of.
SBBJ.
Later on they got merged with SBI.
And Grandfather was an advocate.
So typical middle class.
And when you're in a small town,
the only dream is you become a doctor
or an engineer.
But I think I was not geared up for that.
I was a very mischievous kid.
Academically not very strong.
I mean, 60, 70% scorer at that time...
where people were, I think, 80, 85, or...
I was the eldest one in the family.
No, no. He's fit.
-[Rahul] Yeah?
-And he went to NIFT.
-NIFT ones are the cool ones.
-Yeah.
I have some colleagues who are from there.
Sometimes, over-smart.
Right?
[laughter]
Fashion college.
Yeah, it's like
where all the cool kids go.
So anyways--
See, his shirt has
a very differentiated colour.
It's not white, right?
[chuckles] It's not white.
[Nikhil] What colour is it?
Somewhere off-white, beige-ish.
So I went...
My parents wanted me to become a doctor.
And actually,
I was pushed towards that career
because in small towns,
I think those were the two choice.
And apparently went to Kota also
for PMT preparation.
Medical test at that time
for crash course.
But eventually realised
that I think I can't do that.
And fortunately what happened that...
My father was very, you know, bold
that he wanted to get out of Bikaner
and move to a bigger city.
And he moved to Kanpur, actually.
He got posted there.
And when he moved there,
I realised that it's just not this
as a career.
There are people who are securing
80%, 85% marks
and going to Delhi for B.Com.
So I realised that Mass Com is a course.
B.Com is a course.
Arts people are doing because of passion.
And well-familied, good-educated kids.
Then I realised that
medical I don't want to do.
I enjoyed maths, physics,
those kind of subjects
where I don't need to mug up.
And definitely a small-town kid
going to a bigger city,
so you get a little bit buoyed away
by what's happening there.
I realised that.
Then parents said, "Do an IIT."
Then I realised it's too late for me
to do an IIT now.
Otherwise you'll ask me
to bunk for three years.
And I think it's '98, '99.
And eventually, after graduation,
started preparing for competitive exams.
And formally landed into NIFT.
So I think NIFT Hyderabad
was a real-life learning for me.
First time hostel. Getting out of home.
And I was into fashion management,
not design.
But maybe all the peers were design guys.
And again,
Dad took a loan for me to go to college.
So I had always limitation
that I should not be spending more.
And then my friends
had higher pocket money.
So I think my entrepreneurship stint
started from there.
Tell me things about yourself
that I can't Google.
Or watch in another interview of yours.
'Cause that's boring. I don't wanna know.
I mean... notorious kid, definitely.
And, I mean, I always had hunger
to do something different.
And in college, like I said,
I used to look for alternate sources.
I was again, let's say there was...
high-tech city was all call centres
if you look into it.
Hyderabad that time.
Convergys and all.
So I thought of maybe doing a job
at a call centre.
Maybe pick some project at Convergys.
Not Convergys, maybe, Infosys was there.
Went to ISP to pitch something.
And maybe just started picking up
some projects at our college only,
where, you know,
there was a fest happening,
"Could you bundle the T-shirts?"
So I think my first entrepreneurship time
happened from there on.
I started making
a little bit of pocket money from there.
But I was always insecure in life
that I'll not get the job.
Otherwise I was like...
So you've finished college,
and what did you do first?
When did you finish college?
So I finished college in 2004.
And I got placed
in the manufacturing setup,
Orient Craft, if you would know.
Based out of Gurgaon.
So that is one of the largest export house
out of India.
I thought I would not get
a better job than this.
So I stayed there.
And I worked
for three and a half years there.
It was typically merchandising.
And two years I did merchandising,
I found it very boring.
And I thought of leaving the job
that time because...
If you would know, merchandising is...
buyers say you something
and then you copy paste.
I used to work for Ann Taylor, Gap,
all those brands.
And then I started giving interviews
actually everywhere outside.
I went to Barista.
"Can I do job in marketing?"
Coffee Day was big. There was...
I went to Air Deccan for an interview
to apply for marketing.
I was fed up of my career that time.
Ironically, three people
who have proficiency in marketing
are running consumer electronic companies.
So maybe that's a prerequisite.
We could catch
the market pulse well, actually.
And maybe I didn't get a job
anywhere outside.
And I started taking on
all special projects at the company.
What all the pain problems of the company,
I could take that.
-And you worked with your brother?
-No, no, no.
So my brother is ten years younger to me.
So he came in maybe... ten years ago.
Twenty-five.
For 15, 16, he came in.
-So I was--
-So he's 28.
So we are talking about 2005 to 2008.
He is 28 years old.
No, he's 35. 34, 35.
You're 38.
No, I am 43.
-You're 43.
-Yeah, yeah. I'm 43.
So anyways, I worked there
for three and a half years
and then started picking up.
You look very good, yeah, for 43.
[Amit] Trying to.
Working with young founders,
you have to stay true to that.
Anyways, so I worked
for three and a half years.
They moved me to...
I saw a huge gap
in the international product development.
I picked up that piece,
and that's my journey started.
I moved to Hong Kong for the first time.
And I think it was 2007 era
where I saw global brands were there.
And whenever I used to travel,
people used to ask me,
"Go and buy this thing for me,
that thing for me."
I used to import
a lot of BlackBerrys from there.
I think it was BlackBerry time.
So I used to buy and trade off
for 1,000, 2,000 bucks
and sell it in India in my office.
-It was like jailbreak phones.
-[Rahul] Yeah.
So every time I used to go buy ten phones
and bring it here.
And eventually I realised
that I'm solving a bigger problem,
not electronics, but textile.
Let me do it myself.
And I started my first business in 2007,
which was fashion accessory,
textile merchandising, basically.
Buying house, quasi concept.
And I had 60,000 bucks in my pocket.
And again, how could you do a business
with 60,000 bucks?
So I started it in '7,
based out of Hong Kong.
And I think that's where my journey
with H&M started.
H&M was my first customer.
I worked with them very closely
with the design team.
So that's how I realised, man,
there are brands
which are built at centre.
So India was, I think, fashion...
Big Bazaar time that time.
It was Micromax and Big Bazaar
which were at the bottom.
And H&M was right at the centre.
Not cheap, not luxury,
but selling to the... to the world.
Uniqlo, H&M.
And that's how, I think,
my roots got levelled
at good-quality product
at an affordable price.
Not the cheapest, not the expensive.
I did that business
for seven and a half years,
eight years, travelling a lot.
And then Gaurav, my cousin, actually,
he was 21,
he became commercial pilot, I think,
Air Deccan time or Kingfisher
or Jet Airways, something tanked.
No job.
And he asked me
to get an iPhone that time.
It was just launched.
And I said, "Are you mad?"
[Nikhil] What year?
I think '14.
-What time iPhone--
-[Carl] The first one?
-Yeah.
-2007 or '8?
-'8.
-2007, '8.
So I think he asked me to get
the iPhone 3 sometime.
So I got an iPhone 3 for him,
and I said, "Are you mad?"
It is 25,000 bucks.
And I got a jailbreak phone
from Hong Kong for him.
And I got a phone for him.
He said,
"Then I need to buy a cover for this."
And there were no covers for that phone.
And that's how our journey started.
He said, "Let me get...
I have a problem,
can you solve it for me?"
If I have a problem,
my other friend should have a problem.
So we started mobile accessories
that time.
In which year?
I think 2014, '15.
I think Xiaomi came to India that time.
We launched iPhone covers, we flopped.
All stocks are at home.
-Under the name Noise?
-Yeah, it's under the name Noise.
So the company started in 2014.
'14, '15, we started doing
mobile accessories as a side job.
He was, as a hobby, doing it.
I was doing my business, what I was doing.
And then, iPhone, we had a huge failure,
because the market would be, what, .5%?
We were the only few customers
buying iPhone.
And then we flipped to Xiaomi.
He was doing a side project,
and that's how our journey kicked in.
And then what happened?
The business started becoming very big.
The phone, all Chinese guys came in.
You sold accessories
for the Chinese phones?
Yeah, we sold accessories.
Because, see, please understand,
we couldn't do tech.
I was coming from a fashion background.
I just knew designs.
And mobile cover is just an accessory.
I mean, it's like a T-shirt.
It's such a simple product.
You get it, you print it.
We had a small setup also
manufacturing in a factory
where we used to ship
thousands of cases every day.
And then we realised that this market
is getting super commoditised.
And then when did Noise blow up?
-I think--
-COVID?
No, no, no, not COVID.
I think we started picking up in '19.
I'll tell you the trajectory,
what happened in between.
So we were doing cases, which was fine.
And we realised that the pricings
are going down.
I mean, we started selling for 500 bucks,
and eventually it landed to 150.
And 150, whatever case you sell,
you can't make a big company.
So we were growing,
but we were some 100 crore
revenue company.
Then we thought of starting doing
different categories.
We launched, everybody said marketplaces,
Flipkarts of the universe.
"Why don't you do headphones,
neckbands, or whatever categories?"
We did that, we failed.
There was no differentiation.
And then, out of interest,
we realised what categories to pick.
So our thesis was clear,
we'll not fight the big boys.
Like, Sony was selling wired earphones,
or Philips.
I said, "Why would somebody buy us?"
Till that time, we were cheaper,
and you can't be cheaper.
Till that time, you cut cost.
And we were searching for smartwatch
for ourselves that time in '19 something.
I don't remember that time.
And only Fitbit was available
for 20,000 grands.
Fitbit Blaze or something.
We got a refurb watch for 10,000.
We realised,
"Is this a gap in the market?"
And that's how we started doing watches.
The market was two million units
that time.
Maybe two million in a year.
Nobody was doing watches.
We started,
then it picked up in three, four years.
And COVID, it picked up.
So I think there was a tipping point of--
So, watch was the tipping point?
Watch was the tipping point for us.
Because you were able
to buy refurbished for cheaper and--
No, no, no.
We bought refurbished for ourselves.
But then we realised
that there is a market which exists.
"Can we do in our brand where we could do
a 5,000, 8,000 rupees watch,
which is affordable
to a mid-level consumer?"
Good part, Gaurav was 25 that time.
So he had that young taste.
He never wanted to buy cheap.
And he never wanted to buy
the most expensive one.
And all India market
was Chinese knockoffs.
So that was the desire to build.
Can we use something for ourselves
and gift it to friends, family?
And today you are more known for earbuds?
No, no. We are not known for...
We are less known for earbuds.
We are dominant share for watches.
Watches is more tough category.
How much is your share now?
We would be north of 25%
for last three, four years.
So watches are more complicated.
How big is the market?
-Close to a billion dollar market revenue.
-Wow.
So how much are you selling now, Noise,
in terms of revenues?
We would be... Watches we would have
close to 10, 14% of the revenue share.
[Nikhil] So about 100, 140 million?
[Amit] Close to 100 million of revenue.
[Nikhil] And the rest of the products
in Noise?
Are audio devices.
So as of now, we were very clear
that we have limited capital.
We bootstrapped the business.
So we couldn't go very widthwise.
We never had the--
Have you raised money now?
Last year,
we raised a strategic investment
from Bose Corporation.
And now how big is the business,
revenue-wise?
We would be somewhere sitting...
150, 200 million, that kind of revenue.
Hundred in watches
and fifty to two hundred in others.
And we were very clear,
we'll go deeper in the category
because we never had capital
to experiment multiple ways.
Crazy, huh? Super impressive.
To have been able to bootstrap
to that scale, right?
I didn't know that.
I thought you guys had raised the venture.
No, we didn't.
I think it became a blessing for us
because, first, we never had to dress up
our company for any external benefit.
Like today,
sometimes investors says chase GMV,
second day they say chase market share,
and sometimes profit.
So we were in that luxury
of taking our decisions,
which were right for the business
in long run.
So having less set of people,
having less products,
go deeper in the categories
where you are in.
-Nikhil, this is what the difference is.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
These are the real businesses,
because, see, if you see all old,
you know, businesses,
they were all coming
from their own capital
or having access only to the banks,
you know,
and taking the debt from the banks
and doing those things.
It was not, like,
raising an insane amount of capital
and say, "Okay, you go
and experiment with somebody else."
-Yeah, yeah, yeah.
-Right?
So...
-I think, yeah, these are the examples.
-No, no, crazy impressive.
I like pushing people
to see how they defend themselves.
Yeah. [chuckles]
I'm trying to figure out how to push Amit.
-Yeah.
-Okay, so...
what is today for?
Today is for any young Indian boy or girl,
under the age of 25,
who wants to start
a consumer electronic brand.
It could be cell phone,
it could be TV, it could be speaker,
it could be earphone,
it could be smartwatch.
We want to, like, plot a road map
of what they need to look at,
how to identify the opportunity,
which vendor to go to,
how to test the product,
and how to finally take it to market.
We'll go into
do you sell on quick commerce,
do you sell on Amazon,
do you sell through physical distribution?
So the first thing we thought we might do
is establish market size.
How big is the consumer electronic market,
A, in the world, B, in India?
How fast is it growing there,
and how fast is it growing here?
Should I start with smartphones?
Yeah.
Smartphones globally
is about 1.2 billion units every year.
In India it's 120 to 140 million annually,
depending on what number you look at.
So if you assume that the ASP is $300,
then 1.2 billion,
that's over $300 billion,
just on the hardware side.
ASP is...
-Average selling price.
Very different in India
compared to the rest of the world?
Yeah. Every country is different
depending on the market dynamics.
-Per capita as well.
-Yeah.
Where is the sweet spot?
If I want to start making
a cell phone today,
where would I price it?
Personally, I don't think
there is any more opportunity.
Oh, man, I wouldn't recommend
any of my friends
to go into this business right now.
The market is very, very tough
to compete in.
But you need to understand
that what exactly,
if you want to make that,
what exactly are you trying to solve?
Are you trying to, let's say,
make a luxury brand,
or are you going to make a mass brand?
Basis is that you need to figure out
your TAM.
That what is the market
I'm going to address.
And basis is that you can define,
"Okay, this is that, you know,"
then you can find the sweet spot.
Because otherwise the category is like,
if you see mobile phones,
iPhone is $1,000.
And then your, you know,
the average selling price,
as he said, is right,
between, you know, $250 to $300 in India.
So maybe let me break it
for India market perspective
so that at least viewers
could understand it well.
In a category like truly wireless,
for an example,
the India market
would be like 60 million units.
In a category like?
Audio devices, for an example, like this.
This market
would be like 60 million devices,
which is six crores.
Yeah.
-And 90% of this--
-And value-wise?
Around a billion dollar market value.
Can you just tell me
for India specifically?
Yeah. Yeah.
How much is smartphone, how much is TV,
how much is earphone, how much is watch?
So, like this...
Phones would be
about $150 million, phones?
One-fifty million devices in India,
am I right?
One-fifty million smartphones,
and let's say still there are like around
50, 60 million feature phones.
Feature phones.
So on a broad level,
India has a penetration
of 600 million smartphone users
in the country.
That's the right base to look at it.
Sixty crore people use smartphones,
is that right?
-More or less.
-Yeah. More or less.
I think you gotta look at the annual,
like, 120, 140 number.
[Nikhil] They broadly say that 72 billion
is the consumer electronic market
in India.
-[Carl] How much?
-Seventy-two billion.
Per year.
Total consumer electronics?
USD or INR?
No, billion dollar he is talking about.
In that they say cell phones,
smart plus feature is 50 billion.
Very true. I think large market
would be smartphones only.
-[Nikhil] Right?
-[Carl] Yeah.
So in all the consumer electronics
in India,
because you make TVs and everything else,
and you make earphones
and watch and all that,
where is the opportunity?
For me, say I am a 20-year-old kid
who has managed to raise some money
from somewhere,
and I want to compete in this space.
Where is the opportunity?
Tell me anything,
tell me wired earphone, tell me...
No, so first of all,
I think anybody who wanna enter a space,
first of all, everybody should enter
to a space which is growing
and has a larger time.
There is no point to enter to a space
which doesn't grow
or doesn't have a future.
For an example,
it's not large enough because--
You are saying first you make a box of--
I mean, if the segment is big and growing,
then it's a point to go
because if you're a 2% player also,
you will be a sizable company.
Let's say if you go in a market
which is 1,000 crore overall revenue,
you become 5% also,
you would be a 50 crore company.
-It doesn't make sense.
-Which one is growing?
The fastest.
No, so, okay, in our space,
let me take you through top-down,
you might understand.
Let's say in this case,
this is a 60 million-odd devices
we sell in a year,
which is six crores.
And interestingly,
90% devices get sold below $25,
which is sub 2,000 rupees.
You're talking about Bluetooth earphones?
Bluetooth earphones.
And that is 60% of the market revenue.
Which is what 5,000 crore is like,
this market.
And $25 to $75, which is medium segment,
entry-mid premium,
that is close to 7%...
and would be 15% of the market.
And then it is all $150 plus,
majority Apple,
1% market share, and then...
[Nikhil] So are you saying
it's a good market?
If I want to start,
say I have raised one million dollars.
Should I start a earphone, earpod company?
So I personally think technology works
in a very different way.
It's not like fashion,
where you just create a product
and sell it at any price point.
Technology you need an access to partners
we were talking about,
a lot of proprietary things.
So I think it's a very tough space
for somebody to enter.
Yes, somebody want to enter into sub $20,
yes, they can.
But that's the race to bottom.
And 20 to 50, which is a sweet spot,
like a 1,000 or 1,500 crore market,
it's tough,
and bigger brands are sitting there.
And when you say partner,
everybody's partner is China?
No, no, it's not about those partners.
We have partners.
So one is partners
who are giving us chipsets,
but then you need to have
your own app teams,
you need to have your own algorithms
we were talking about.
So those expertise is also needed.
-Mainly supply chain.
-Supply chain. Yeah.
For us, we have US partners,
Chinese partners, Japanese, Korean.
Yes, it's very international.
So how do I... Say I have an idea
to start an earpod company,
how do I connect with these partners?
I'm a newbie, I have no track record.
You have not worked in this industry?
-I've not worked in this industry.
-Completely coming from outside?
I personally think, Nikhil,
it's really tough until and unless
you're getting to a segment
which is fairly new
and not being cracked by all of us.
I mean, a niche space.
But, see,
you guys started recently, right?
-You started--
-I'll give you one example.
So I did OnePlus,
so I'm relatively known
in the industry, right?
In the electronics industry.
And when we started this new company,
Nothing, we wanted to make phones.
Nobody wanted to make phones for us.
They said,
"Hey, look at the past ten years.
So many startups have come and failed,
and why are you different?
You raise money. They also raise money.
You have experience.
They also have experience.
We're not gonna make a phone for you.
Like, go away."
And then we're like,
"Okay, we can't make a phone.
Maybe we can make earbuds first
to prove ourselves,
to prove the skills of our team."
We go to the earbud factories,
and they also tell us to go away.
They're like, "Hey, just go on Amazon.
There's 2,000, 3,000 earbuds brands.
Who are you? What's your differentiation?
What's your strategy?
How much money have you raised?
Go away."
We were shocked.
We thought we had some reputation
in the industry
that some of the factories
wanna work with us.
So what changed? How did you do it?
We went to the worst factory.
Like, the factory,
if they didn't take us on as a client,
they would go out of business immediately.
In China?
In China,
because they were on the blacklist
of a lot of other people
for quality issues.
And how did you find this factory?
One of my co-founders, I think he...
yeah, he knew some of the salespeople
in the supply chain
and found this factory.
But this was a factory
that had been put on the blacklist
'cause of quality issues.
But we had no other choice.
Nobody wanted to work for us.
That's where we started.
That's true for all of us.
We had to start work with factories
which were less known.
People don't want to work
because bigger factories
don't want to touch you also.
They are saying we are happy
making Apple, Boses of the universe,
and we don't want to--
But how do, I as a 20-year-old,
find this factory?
Like, you had somebody.
I think you can't. Like, they won't--
What if I just go to China
and look for them?
There is no reason for them to engage.
Like...
Nikhil, these are the large businesses,
for example,
if you see the size in terms of value,
automobile and mobile phone
will be similar.
-In terms of value.
-Very right.
So if I reach out to one of you guys,
if I happen to know you,
and ask that you connect me to a factory,
is that the way to do it?
If we connect also to the factories,
factories has no motivation
to work with you
because everybody works with MOQ,
certain processes.
-[Carl] Yeah.
-They find you working with...
I would need to pitch who you are.
I will go to this founder of the factory.
"Hey, I have a friend
who wants to talk to you.
This is this person's background
and credentials.
Can I make the intro or not?"
So...
So I have a recent example
going on right now.
So right now we have this technology
of making connected glasses.
Right.
Because we feel that's the future,
that's where buyers are going to move.
We are trying to find out
who are the right brands
who can do these glasses
and established brands
in the glasses space,
right now who exist,
pitching it to them that, "Hey, look--"
Like Meta glasses?
-Exactly same.
-[Nikhil] Right.
Exactly same.
Actually, with Meta, along with Meta.
When you say along with Meta--
Meta, the operating system,
for example, the whole AI is from Meta.
So, for example, they have done
the same partnership with Luxottica,
-Ray-Ban, similar.
-[Nikhil] Right. Right.
Do you guys think
there is an opportunity there?
The form is changing,
and it moves from cell phone
to something else?
No, I think, interestingly,
our industry is evolving every decade.
So, like, nobody thought that Nokia
could be disrupted, for an example.
So any of our devices could be disrupted,
and form factors are definitely changing.
People are working aggressively
on glasses.
So that is one form factor to look into.
But like he said,
it's a game of people who have...
For glasses,
I think all mobility is working.
Entire mobile brands in the world
are working towards that.
So it becomes very difficult
for a young company to still compete.
Glasses, you can do.
[Amit] You got one...
one gap.
No, there is. Because, see,
look at the glasses industry.
Last year, Meta, with Luxottica,
and these are public numbers,
they sold two million glasses,
two million.
And the number what is being projected
in the next four years
is around 30 million.
That's a CAGR of, let's say,
more than 43, 45% on an annual basis.
Right?
And... since we have been working on that,
so the tech is...
So earlier the glasses came
with only speaker here.
-Yeah, yeah.
-Right?
-Old. Yeah, yeah.
-Yeah?
Gen 2, there was a camera.
Yeah.
And let's say Gen 3
with this whole AI engine coming in there.
Gen 4, you have a heads-up display.
Correct.
Now once you have a heads-up display,
then whatever, for example,
is going on my cell phone,
I have a display here.
On the frame?
No, no, not on the frame.
It is a heads-up display
like you have in your cars.
You are projecting onto a wall.
No, no, not on the wall.
-Just like in a car speedometer.
-Yeah, yeah.
It is a heads-up display. You can see.
So here I can see.
So today, for example, if it is in,
let's say, black and white,
tomorrow it will be all coloured.
It will evolve.
And then, for example,
if you are watching your Instagram Reels,
you are just flicking it.
Just sitting,
and then you are not taking out your phone
because rest of...
See, in your phone, you have a display,
you have speaker, mic, and a camera.
All things are solved.
Then why do you need
to take out your phone?
Do you think that will be the future
of form?
Cell phone will move to glasses?
See, nobody can just firmly say that,
"Okay, this is..."
Although, for example, Zuckerberg has said
that this is going to be.
But he said the Oculus
and all of those things
were the form as well for a long time,
which didn't play out, right?
[Rahul] You're correct.
So, as I said, see, it is nothing right,
nothing wrong.
You have to go out in the market
and test it out.
-Hmm.
-[Rahul] Right?
But looking at the tech right now,
what exactly is it going to solve?
I think I've seen
all the new glasses coming up.
I seriously feel that this will be
the form factor to watch out for.
-[Nikhil] Right.
-[Rahul] Yes.
So if somebody new watching this
wants to get into the industry,
this is the industry.
-Right.
-I have a different approach.
If somebody was young and watching this
and wanting to get
into consumer electronics,
I would urge them
to first become a content creator.
Bang on!
-Marketing.
-Because the barrier to entry is very low.
Everybody can do it.
And that is the arbitrage opportunity now.
Like, the millennials
and the older people,
they're gonna have a harder time to learn
the latest algorithms, latest trends.
100%.
If you do the content well, like MrBeast,
now you can do anything.
You can make chocolates,
you can make a TV show on Amazon.
When you have the traffic,
you have leverage to sell any product.
Then when I do the intro to the factory,
they will, "That's MrBeast, of course."
He's just some random kid,
it's impossible.
But I feel there are very niche spaces
which are coming up
which none of us are solving
as bigger companies.
When you look at our space,
this product...
hearing aids, is a decent space.
But right now it's like 150,000,
1,50,000 rupees or $2,000,
there is a hearing aid, it looks ugly.
I see industry working in a space
which is over-the-counter hearing aids,
way affordable, looking better.
That is one market.
And when you look at our category,
wearables,
I see now penetration has happened
in wearables.
Like, as parents, we have used, Rahul.
Now the problem is we have aging parents.
We need a device for them
which could monitor their health.
And more importantly,
we live in urban cities, we have kids.
And you won't believe, I get a message
from five people every day,
"Do you have a kid's watch?"
Because none of us
are looking at this space,
the space stands at zero.
You're saying for kids
and senior monitoring?
I mean, we have two spaces,
because, see, first market--
But can't an Apple Watch do that?
Apple Watch does it,
but it's 50,000 rupees.
Will India price point get solved
with 50,000 bucks?
India would need a watch for a parent,
maybe at eight to ten thousand rupees.
Not a 50,000, 100%.
So coming up to his point of hearing aids.
Again, anybody watching,
there's a space to disrupt.
Because all the hearing aids, if you see,
are, like, one lakh rupees,
two lakh rupees,
-close to three lakh rupees.
-Two lakh rupees.
I, you know,
went to buy for my dad to a doctor.
It's 1.5 lakh rupees, hearing aid.
And I said, "You have a better one?"
He said, "Yeah, it's two lakh rupees."
I said, "What is the difference?"
"Software difference."
On phone.
With this, we give you three more
extra features which you can unlock.
-It's very uncompetitive market.
-Yeah.
I said, "Why?"
He said, "No, no, with these features,
you'll be able to understand
if the voice is coming
from behind or front, all these things."
Then I went into
why these hearing aids are expensive.
Because back then,
putting something in a small form factor
was expensive.
Was expensive at that time.
But not today.
I think, no,
it's not about this also, Rahul.
So cost would be cheaper for
the manufacturer who is selling it brand.
But it's just about only one or two brands
doing that business,
selling at maybe 80%, 90% gross margin.
-There is one company I'm just forgetting.
-They have the majority market share.
They have all the three big brands
-in the world.
-Yeah, yeah, yeah.
-Hearing aids?
-Yeah.
There is one company
who has bought out all others.
Three to four big brands in the world.
Is it a big market?
It's a narrow, not big.
-But--
-Is there another advice?
Pick narrow markets
where the large incumbents
are not going after?
-Yes, if you're passionate about it.
-[Amit] Yeah.
Passion has to keep you going.
Explain, like, why would I be passionate
about hearing aids?
That's what I mean.
If you are not passionate
about a business you're starting,
like, businesses are tough.
There are some good days
and a lot of terrible days.
So if you are not really in love
with what you are doing,
it's hard to persevere
when it gets really difficult.
But can I be passionate
about hearing aids?
Some people are passionate about it.
Some people are, by the way.
They are trying to solve real problems.
No, we are.
If somebody wants to do it, you know,
crack the code, go out of it.
So, for example, you are saying
you want to introduce someone and all.
I mean, we can introduce to them
all the chipset players,
you know, all whatever.
Because nobody is there in that space
that's available for somebody to take on.
And we are ready to fund them.
100%.
Think I am not interviewing you guys.
Think I am a 20-year-old boy
sitting in a room.
I have had the great opportunity
of sitting with three of you.
I have a million dollars.
I want to build something
in consumer electronics.
I live in Bangalore, in India.
So you three have a conversation,
and I will try and learn along the way.
And intervene once in a while.
What else?
We have already given the cards,
for example.
You know, the glasses, hearing aids.
-[Nikhil] What else?
-What not-- I'll be very clear.
If somebody is trying to go
to a commodity market, it's no-go.
It's a race to bottom.
There is no winning there.
What is a commodity?
I mean, let's say somebody says,
"I want to do a earbud
which is 1,500 bucks."
No go.
How will you win?
I mean, what's your right to win
when there's overcrowded market?
And when large players are there.
I am a content creator.
I have distribution.
Let's add that.
I'll tell you, content creator
also has a shelf threshold of,
let's say,
whatever million followers they have.
They could reach to 5,000 units,
10,000 units, not beyond that.
Did somebody, a content creator,
recently sell a watch, and he sold a lot?
-Yeah.
-What was his name?
Shlok, nah?
Anarc. Layers.
-Yeah.
-Shlok.
-Yeah, yeah, yeah.
-Tech Burner.
So they did it, but if you look into it--
What if the kid is ten times
or hundred times bigger than Tech Burner?
MrBeast has done that.
But I'm just saying.
Tech is very different.
Tech, they failed because the product
was not up to the mark.
They were new in the town.
See, it's not like selling T-shirt.
You can just stitch it and sell it.
And there is no tech to it.
A same factory makes a 300-rupees T-shirt
and a 30,000-rupees T-shirt also.
Tech is not like that.
But if you're outsourcing the tech,
the production,
if you're going to a co-packer almost--
No, it's not like this business.
So, like all of us,
we choose what components to get into.
That will get into it.
It's a super customised business.
Some of the software layers
are being customised
at our level in our teams.
Some are outsourced.
-Am I right, Carl?
-Yes.
And then we design a product,
and then it comes out.
It's like a CPU.
It's just not you buy from it.
You choose specific components,
run software on it, develop software.
It's not that easy.
That's why companies are failing.
So I had the same idea
before trying this business.
There's a bunch of factories.
They all know how to make it.
We just go and order and then pay them.
It shows up. Done.
That can't be further away from the truth.
Like, these factories, sure,
they have the common models
that you can buy off the shelf.
-But everybody can buy those.
-[Amit] Yeah.
And they don't have the best engineers.
Like, the best engineers,
they're not gonna work for a factory.
They're gonna work for Apple
or Samsung or, like, a brand, right?
So they don't have good engineering.
So what is happening in China,
and what is happening at Apple?
Explain the engineering process.
We just were discussing
when we went on a break.
About the camera.
-Yeah.
Yeah, camera is a great example.
Like, if you wanna create...
There are so many fields
within these products, right?
There is a radio antenna,
there is industrial design,
there is camera, there is software.
It's like so many different things.
Everything requires a lot of investment
and time and energy to do it well.
So I think maybe taking a step back.
One piece of advice
is to really also respect
whatever new thing you're doing.
Like, "Okay, now we are making earbuds.
Let's learn about how to make earbuds,
how everything works.
Well, now we're doing camera tuning.
Let's really learn about how that works."
So we just have a very simplistic view
and outsource it to other people.
If we don't even know
what the underlying principles are,
it's gonna be very bad.
So just for camera,
we've been struggling with camera.
This year, it got a lot better.
It's not that we are not smart enough.
But the camera
is a very hardcore resource investment.
The way it works is you make the phone
recognise the scene.
The scene could be
two people sitting here.
It could be nighttime. It could be city.
Fruits.
Fruits. The more scenes you can define,
the better your pictures will be.
The more you can define,
then each scene will have its own tuning.
The team will tune it differently
depending on the scene
to make it as beautiful as possible
for this specific scene.
So if I have a big team,
I can define a lot of different scenes.
So then there's a very high likelihood
that the phone will tune it
in a way that's nice.
If I have a small team,
I can only define a few scenes.
So if I only have a few scenes,
then I'll miss a lot of the long-tail
potential use cases for the camera.
And customers are not gonna be happy.
Yeah, I think identifying gaps,
and as I said,
you know, in terms of passion,
you were saying.
So still so many categories are there.
Example.
Let's take example of Dyson.
Can you disrupt?
Bang on.
So if you look at India as a market,
there is no Dyson.
It's just Dyson,
which is like 40,000 bucks,
and there is Bajaj to buy.
No. So there is a company
called SharkNinja.
The number one in USA.
-[Amit] There.
-Disrupted as in completely.
By Dyson, do you mean vacuum cleaner,
hair blower--
Home. Home. Home.
You see, if you look at it,
there is no young brand in home.
Look at the customer.
Our parents grew up buying Bajaj.
We aspire to buy Dyson,
but Dyson is too expensive.
So look at that 25 to 35 age group,
what they would buy.
So, for example,
if I have to use an analogy,
-if Dyson is the Mercedes-Benz...
-[Amit] Yeah. No, Toyota is there.
Yeah, a Toyota, a Honda, or a Hyundai.
We have Maruti.
So Maruti is Bajaj?
I mean, those kind of companies, yeah.
So, you know, these are the segments.
So you have to really identify those gaps
and say, "Yes. Is there a market?"
And I think, go for it.
And if you have a passion and all,
you will figure out a way,
you know, find out the right people.
Maybe take a step-by-step approach.
Instead of starting your own company,
work for somebody else,
-like me.
-Learn it.
If there are so many mistakes you can make
in our industry,
if I did not do it, like, once before,
the chances of failure
would have been way higher.
It's, like, eight to nine months
of a cycle when you're committed.
And when you're committed,
you are committed
with few million dollars.
You cannot get out.
Carl, you have said the easiest way
to differentiate is design.
In a bunch of interviews.
Can't I look at the same devices,
but relook design altogether?
And do what design?
Like, relook
my design philosophy altogether.
Why do earbuds have to look like this?
What if I change
the form factor completely?
Then there is PMF risk.
What is PMF risk?
Product-market fit risk.
So if you look at our products,
that product and this product,
design is different,
but actually there is very low PMF risk
because these are products
that consumers already know how to use,
what to use it for.
They already buy a lot of them
every single year.
If you deviate too much
from the current product definition,
then you have to take care of the risk.
And then it's a question
of whether the risk versus the reward
could potentially be worth it.
But there's no way to test it?
You can test it, you can do a mock-up,
you can even use AI to generate a picture
and then go and speak to people.
But I think besides mock-up,
it is all about functionality, usage,
so that also plays a bigger role.
So I think we don't want to change
people behaviours the way they are doing.
Little changes--
It is a different business strategy.
I think we're
in the fast follower strategy
or late mover strategy.
Explain.
So we're coming into an industry
that already got created by other people,
and we're just trying to carve out
our space within a big industry,
a billion-units-a-year industry
that was created by other people.
So then we do not take the risk.
We come into a very mature category,
and then we can differentiate
through design.
But if you're creating something new,
like, back in the day, drones were new,
or now electric vehicles are new,
or robotics,
then you do not have to differentiate
on the product
because the technology is fresh enough
as a differentiator.
But then you have the execution risk
on the technology and also the PMF risk
on whether consumers will wanna adopt
this product or not.
I personally think late mover
is easier for me.
That requires a different way of thinking,
more survival-focused,
more capability-building,
more long-term thinking.
Whereas the technology approach
is more like, you have one shot.
If it works, it works.
If it does not work,
you gotta start over again.
-So just asking Carl on...
-[Nikhil] Yeah, yeah.
So, Carl, on the phones, for example,
where do you think...
some disruption can happen?
I think the disruption can happen
on the OS side.
I think the hardware side is very hard
to differentiate on
because all these suppliers that we have,
they're all very concentrated,
and they're very strong,
and they're investing
in their product road map,
upgrading their batteries and processors
incrementally every year.
Like, we cannot really differentiate.
And as a supplier,
you wanna sell to everybody, right?
But if the form factors are changing now,
foldable phones are coming in,
don't you think if we can bring the cost
by innovation of the foldable phones down,
it will have a mass adoption?
Because relatively,
it's a game-changing thing
because from a single screen,
you're going to a bigger screen.
-Yeah.
-Or maybe a triple screen.
That's also not up to us, right?
'Cause the screen manufacturer
is the real decision maker
for that product.
It's not us.
Also, just to add onto it,
the screen manufacturer is also booked,
and he also wants to take advantage of it
because he knows after three years,
there's gonna be the same price
as a normal screen.
So he will also not reduce the price.
And you wanna go with the biggest vendor
instead of a startup like us.
So I think for us,
our biggest opportunity to differentiate
in our next phase
-is through the OS.
-OS.
I think the next differentiation
for all of us
would be through software only.
But aren't you using one of two softwares
which are in the market
and operating your devices on that?
[Amit] So we...
So phones is a different universe.
They're Android or iOS.
But in our case,
we work on open RTOS operating system,
where we build our operating system there.
-Right.
-And what I mean is,
more softwares would come in like,
"Could I fine-tune my audio
based on my hearing capabilities
of my ear?"
Like, Apple is doing it now.
It's pure software.
"Or could I have AI capabilities in this
so that I could interact it?"
A lot of companies are working
on a friend kind of a concept.
So it's all software,
what I see is happening.
And the same is gonna happen on the...
Today we're based on Android,
but I see some disruption opportunities
to become the next Android.
Like?
I think there's a couple of trends, right?
The one trend is...
if you look at the current big OSes,
iOS and Android,
they're very successful already.
Android has three billion-plus users.
iOS has one billion-plus users.
So they can't really
change the product that much.
If you change the product,
a lot of people are gonna be confused.
They have too many users.
And it's very profitable.
They're making a lot of money
on the software and the services.
I don't know the number for India,
but in the US,
Apple makes $100 per year
on each iPhone user,
just on non-hardware stuff.
It's a very high margin.
It's very profitable. Very big.
Now the disruption moment is with GenAI
-and large language models.
-[Amit] Correct.
If you look at the recent news
around Apple,
they announced Apple Intelligence at WWDC.
And still today, almost a year later,
-there's nothing...
-Still the same.
...nothing there to use.
Now they are reshuffling
their management team.
And this is like four years after ChatGPT.
It took a long time to implement this.
So I think, one,
they're too big and too successful.
So then the question is, like,
how do you disrupt?
Like, what is their biggest moat?
I think, at least for smartphones,
their biggest moat
is their developer ecosystem, right?
If today we launch our own OS
based on Android or a fork of Android,
we don't have any apps on the phone,
no app store, no apps,
nobody is gonna buy the product.
Like, I wanna use my apps.
But again, if you look at AI,
there's a disruption moment
for app development
because now with AI coding tools,
you just need to write what app you want,
and then it shows up.
In the future, you can just speak
what app you want into the phone,
and that app shows up.
So then that gives
a smaller company like us
the ability to compete with iOS,
which has, I don't know,
a million, two million apps already.
But we can empower every normal person
to also be an app developer.
If you have an idea,
you just speak your idea into the product.
Therefore, we can also quickly develop
our ecosystem of developers and apps.
So I think that's the main opportunity
that I see,
that a younger, more nimble company
can navigate a changing world way quicker.
And the big moment that's enabling
all of this is the advancements in AI.
How else can AI present opportunities
if I were to want to build something
in consumer electronics as a 25-year-old?
It's kind of like the personal computer.
The example of it enables you
to manifest your creativity into reality.
The personal computer allows you to go
to Photoshop, GarageBand, iMovie.
Now, creating stuff is easier than ever.
Like, we talked about creating apps.
You can create graphics,
create advertising,
create content,
create product design, code.
It's really, in one way, lowering the bar
to creativity being manifested.
[Rahul] I think that is one segment
which will...
Again, a great idea,
you know, for all the youngsters.
For AI, in terms of training the models,
you know,
we all see that you will need
these many GPUs,
you know, hundreds of GPUs,
thousands of GPUs,
to train all your models and all.
I think all those things,
you know, will change.
There will be a time
where you will be able to train
the largest of the models
using one single server.
You will not need a farm of servers.
We have seen a trailer
in form of DeepSeek already.
And I think very soon we'll...
What, you know, it implies
is that how it is going to change.
This means that the access to technology
will be massified.
Right now, it is with only a few people
who are working on these LLMs.
For example, running 405 billion tokens,
or now the new model
is 788 billion tokens,
which only big server farms can do.
But, once there is a technology
wherein within a single server
you'll be able to--
You can run your models.
I think, then all the youngsters,
and they are way more creative,
they will be able to come up with,
for example, an operating system.
They can just come up with an OS
and then...
and figure it out.
Maybe then find a MrBeast and say,
"Okay, hey, I have this."
And then, so...
But, there will be numerous opportunities
coming out of that once it is massified.
One trend that I see in the market
is the youth of today does not want to buy
from the corporations of yesterday.
I feel like things like Louis Vuitton,
Gucci are not cool today
like they might have been ten years ago.
Everybody wants streetwear,
the new independent brand--
Look at how you are dressed, for example.
Do you think there is a play there?
If I start a consumer electronic company
where I will use the narrative
of not a corporation?
[Carl] I think there is an opportunity,
but I think you would first need to start
in a different category.
Like, make a fashion brand,
make that successful.
Then you have the credibility
to go to the consumer
electronics suppliers
to get them to want to work with you.
'Cause they have seen so many...
These guys have seen so many failures
and so many pitches.
They are very pragmatic.
That is an interesting idea.
So, you are saying
start an independent design-themed brand,
start elsewhere,
succeed and then transition into this?
You have to have volume.
That is the core of the consumer
electronics industry.
To be able to work with these suppliers
you need to show the numbers
that they can believe in.
So, look at our case.
We did not come from electronics
or consumer electronics background.
So, in my wildest dream
I could have never thought of
working in a space which is led by
mobility brands or other brands.
So, we started with mobile accessories.
It's like...
I still say it is a T-shirt business.
It is just simple cases.
You just print designs
and designs are a character.
And we started understanding the user,
consumer pattern,
and knowing and started building volumes.
Our partners saw a confidence in us, like,
"They are doing good volumes.
We could test something with them."
So, maybe our entry also
was not on day one here.
We learnt consumer from a basic business.
But, by the way,
I have a very fundamental question
which I have realised as a founder.
What is the segment of the market
you want to chase?
Like, what customer you want to...
I am asking you that question.
I don't have data like you have.
No, it is not about what I want.
It is about what you want to build.
I'll tell you for an example,
the game what he is doing.
He is saying,
I'll not fight the cheapest in the market,
like, he is not doing the Xiaomi play.
But what he is doing,
he is in the mid segment,
which is super painful,
which needs time.
His gestation would be...
Success will not be short term.
He would have a patience of
three-to-four-year capital to build it.
And then he--
There are chances he might see
and might not see success.
So, as founders or whosoever,
young people want to start,
they need to be very clear
what segment they are trying to build.
Because different segment--
When you talk about design--
What, if I come to you with a blank slate,
what segment
would you recommend I build in?
No, if you ask me,
I would say don't go for the mass.
Mass is important,
but have some brand aspiration,
have your identity,
have your brand uniqueness.
No point to fight for a commodity,
that's a race to bottom.
You sell for $20,
somebody else will sell for 15, 12, 11.
Have your own community,
one narrow cohort of users
who you are selling,
and that community should be
your evangelist there.
And that always happens at
somewhere little above, not to the basics.
You are not solving basics
of anyone right now.
How does India build the supply chain?
Great.
So, it's a process.
So, the process is that
you start with initially...
to start with EMS.
EMS is?
EMS is the electronic manufacturing
services that you start the EMS process.
Then you start getting the design
out there in country.
Then after design, you start working on
the supply chain, the component ecosystem.
Right? So, this is...
This all is a process one-by-one.
If I am 25 and I want to start
a component company,
I've raised a little bit of money,
put up a factory.
How will I ever compete
with somebody in China
who's manufacturing millions of units?
So, you can do that.
So, there is so much of material
which goes inside.
For example, a glue on a glue machine,
on SMT, it's a glue.
That glue--
So, I just found out that that glue,
the particular glue
is still coming from China.
We can-- Why can't we make that here?
And I studied, I said why the chemical
companies can make that glue out there.
You can do that.
Probably there is--
Maybe somebody has to find out
and get into that.
I know someone, you know, who said, "Okay,
after finishing my engineering,
what should I do and all?"
And then went on search
that what India is importing a lot
and he found out
all the coin's material...
Right? For the coins, currency coins,
the material, we still import.
He started making that,
he started supplying that.
So, you just...
Is that an opportunity for me?
I think US will, in the tariff world,
not buy from China like they once did.
Components is a huge opportunity.
So, for example, now India is projecting
a market of 500 billion dollars by 2030.
It's a huge market.
60% of that is components.
And we are also incentivised to use
the locally manufactured components.
If manufacturing is coming here,
100% components will come here,
like batteries...
-That's an opportunity, too.
-100%.
Like, I want to make money,
I'm 25, in this industry.
-Component is part of--
-EMS is a...
I think next ten years is EMS. So...
And the component PLI scheme is coming.
Maybe by the time this podcast is out,
the scheme will be announced.
How do I go about starting that?
Let's say an EMS company,
an EMS manufacturer.
Great. So, take a mobile phone,
get into each and every component.
There are so many. There are--
So, in a mobile phone, there are,
let's say, 700-800 components.
Maybe in his phone, maybe it will be more.
iPhone will be way more, right?
Get into that.
How do I find that out?
Like, I want to know...
I'm assuming US, China
are going to hate each other
for some time more.
Apple phones are made in the US.
They can't buy that particular product
that they have been, from China anymore.
How do I figure out what that component is
and then how to build it?
Just tear it down.
Nikhil, these days,
it is actually simpler.
You know, you go on ChatGPT.
There are so many sites on the Internet
where you could just see
tear down of every phone.
Tear down, you can find out
what are the components
and then you find out, okay,
how many components are there in India.
Go on the export list, import list
that what all are getting in the country.
Right? What is the volume? What is the--
These days, you can get access
to all the customs data easily.
[Amit] Yeah.
So, huge opportunity.
You should also work at EMS to get some...
industry knowledge.
-Experience. Yeah.
-[Carl] Experience.
There is somebody working with him
for a year.
He would know everything
where this opportunity lies.
How big is the incentive
for someone like Carl?
Say, you are selling Nothing phones
in India.
You source from me in Bangalore
versus a Chinese component manufacturer.
Is the incentive enough
to warrant the change in price?
So, right now, we have to pay
duties on components
that are sourced
from other countries like China.
So the more we can source locally,
the more we can lower
the prices of our product
to then be more competitive on the market.
So, we are very incentivised.
And if we are able to tap into PLI,
and I think the PLI regulation
will also be more and more requiring
of the brands to source locally.
And they will raise the bar
every single year.
We are very incentivised
to source locally.
As a business, we just need to make
the best decision for our shareholders.
So, till now you have told me,
go to ChatGPT, figure out...
No, no, just...
Just as I said, these days,
there are a lot of avenues
where you can go and find out
multiple sort of information.
Right. So, I figure out one component
which is going into
US cell phone manufacturer
which is coming from China.
And then I go about figuring if that
raw material is available in India.
I identify that there is.
What do I do next
to set up a factory which makes it?
Okay, let's take an example.
Carl, can I use your phone?
Let's say this is a USB socket.
[Nikhil] Yeah.
This USB socket is
the most abused component here
because, let's say a million times
you are going to...
Right? So, this means to say that
this will require
a special sort of material.
Study that material.
Where that material is available?
Who is manufacturing it?
At what cost?
And absolutely go to the root of that.
And then see what are the...
If you can go and visit these factories
by tapping someone,
getting into a network--
These factories in China?
Wherever. Wherever. If possible.
See, and then understand the standards.
See, why this is not happening?
Why I gave you a glue example?
Because people said,
"No, India can't make that."
Why can't we make that?
We are fantastic in chemical--
Our chemical industry,
our pharmaceutical industry,
they are doing brilliantly well.
Probably there is maybe,
there is not awareness of that,
or the volumes and everything,
but I think if we are going to go,
let's say from 100 billion
to 500 billion dollars,
it's a massive opportunity.
Similarly here.
What else can be done?
Like, see, the outcome of this is we want,
even if it's five kids who start...
solving for the supply chain problem
dependency that we are talking about,
if that is the go-to action that happens
because of the time we have spent today,
I think we can all say today was worth it.
Also, like, we spoke--
And I think we will need
5,000 of those kids
because it's a huge universe.
And we don't have it here.
We have to bring it in.
[Nikhil] Yeah.
And, by the way, brands like us
are desperately looking for people
to do it for us.
I mean, it's our need also.
What is the biggest need?
Say two things that you want me--
Let's say for us, for an example,
in watches we do,
the largest component is the screen.
The screen is like $5 or something.
And if I import, there is a 15% duty,
which means every screen
I am paying, what?
One and a half-- Close to $1.
If you say, make it in India,
it's a huge volume.
It's maybe half a million,
one million screens a month.
What is the margin in screen business?
I'm sure if we cost arbitrage,
if you look at it,
it still makes 10% or 7%.
It's just one SKU,
you have to keep producing.
Oh, you know the smartphone screens
from China,
those companies are losing money
to sell the screens.
Because they have policies that subsidise
the creation of that industry.
So, at least for the smartphone screens,
it's very hard for...
So you're saying our import duty has to be
higher than their subsidy, at the least?
At the least, if-- Yeah. Yeah.
So, one is import duty,
and second, of course,
the PLI schemes coming on components
will incentivise
to use more Make In India.
Any advice to the government,
because I'm sure
somebody will be watching.
How should the PLI scheme be structured
for components?
It's already structured.
It's just going to be announced
in two-three days.
-He would be a part of it.
-[Rahul] So...
It's a good scheme.
Yes, it's a good scheme.
But see, the larger point here is...
that you have to ensure
that locally-made products
make more sense for anybody who wants to,
you know, who's selling,
let's say, in India.
I'm not even talking about export.
If Carl wants to buy a,
let's say, a middle frame,
he should be able to source it locally
and it should be cheaper for him,
not because he's forced
because of a regulation.
It should also make sense economically
for him to do that.
And that, in today's world,
because of scale,
it can only happen with custom duty
or the tariff.
So, tariff-- No--
-Depending on the component.
-Yes.
I think plastic
should be very easy, right?
-To replicate here.
-Yes.
Plastic, and second, as I said,
the government incentive schemes.
Because, you know,
if you see how China was built,
because of
all the government schemes only.
And why their exports went up
because their export schemes are,
like, massive.
You three continue talking.
Like, I'm a 25-year-old.
I'm trying to learn from three stalwarts
of our consumer electronic industry.
I want to make money. End goal.
The biggest moneymaker is, like...
The industries with fewer competitors,
right? Like NVIDIA.
If you look at the NVIDIA share price,
it's insane.
Taking a huge example.
But even for our industry, like,
I think the chipset makers,
their margins are way higher
than the EMS factories, right?
NVIDIA, I don't know, is it 40--
Qualcomm is 40, 60--
They're 45%, I think,
they just declared, yeah.
[Carl] 45% gross margin.
But Foxconn is, I think, 10%. So...
Like, eventually we also have to move
upmarket, right,
into, like, more and more difficult,
lower competition areas of the stack.
Yes, but, Carl, again,
Nikhil's point is that how do we inspire
the young generation out here
to start doing something?
You know, how do they spot opportunities?
Yeah.
So, as I said, if you tear down the phone,
what are the easiest five things,
ten things you can just pick up and say,
"Hey, this I can do.
That is a little-- Is not that complex."
By the way, you know, he's right.
You know, so making these mechanics,
for example,
precision mechanics is not that easy.
We still, you know, a lot of things
are getting imported,
even on precision mechanics.
-Yeah?
-[Rahul] Yeah.
But once there are
a lot of incentives and all,
we have ample people here
who can take a shot at that.
I'm curious to hear, like,
how does the next Qualcomm...
Like, if a kid is watching this,
like, say, 30 years later,
they've created Qualcomm,
the next Qualcomm.
Like, how does that path happen?
So, you know, Carl, you just straight away
talking about a moonshot.
But instead of a Qualcomm, one Qualcomm,
I'm saying, can we make, for example,
if I have to take an example
of automobile,
let's say, in terms of components,
can we make 300 or 500 Mindas here?
Minda is a good example, you know.
-Auto is all making money.
-[Rahul] Yeah.
-Makes sense.
-Yeah.
I think that's a very large opportunity,
knocking on our door.
How much money would I need to start
a factory around, say, the USB port?
I think it will be very less, right?
[Amit] For USB port.
It's not easy.
-You would know it the best.
-[Rahul] Yeah, it's a...
You know, Molly and all,
they are like specialised Europeans
who are working on this.
But again, it was just an example.
But once you go inside, Nikhil,
as I said, you can find out...
For example, inside there is a...
You have battery.
On battery to dissipate the heat,
you need some mechanism
to dissipate the heat.
You need a graphene,
small film of graphene,
which you can put,
which can dissipate the heat.
You can make it here.
It will go in every phone.
So, I am not saying straight away
you go and target,
okay, I am going to make the next
Sony camera or something like that.
And the PLI scheme
will incentivise all of this?
So, as of now,
they have structured it for,
let's say,
components which are high in value,
let's say, which cover 70% to 75%
of the mobile phone.
These are all B2B businesses then.
I mean, everybody has
a different inclination
towards what they want to build.
No, anything is fine.
I just want to build something
in this space
where I can actually make money.
Is there financing available?
Let's say, I figure out a certain product
which is under PLI that I start building.
But I don't have too much initial capital.
How does one go around
getting that initial funding?
If I come up with a business plan
and come to somebody like Rahul,
will you give it?
Yes, if I see that your product works,
working as per the standards, and then...
Would a bank give it?
I think yes.
But, of course, banks work on collaterals.
I don't have collateral.
There are a few banks who might,
you know...
Is there some startup scheme,
some government subsidy,
where I can get the initial capital?
Yes, you can. There are multiple schemes.
Again, yeah. Very good point.
There are so many schemes
which people are not even aware of.
For example, for MSME sector,
you know,
from Invest India, from Startup India,
there are multiple schemes going on
which people are not even aware of.
I am not aware. How do I find out?
You will have to make this much effort.
Then you need to go after that
and find out
how many schemes are available
and then one by one...
Which one applies to me.
Yes. For example,
there is a PLI everybody knows,
but there is a DLI,
which is design-led incentive
for the chipsets and all.
You should know that.
There is a grant for that.
You need to show your designs.
Government, you know, they will come,
inspect and see what you are doing
and then you can do that.
For a right idea, you will knock on
100 doors, one door will open.
But you need-- You need to knock.
You just can't say, okay...
As you also said,
either a bank will come up
or a VC will come up
or a government scheme will come up.
Something will come up for a right idea.
I was reading this thing.
Somebody had sent me an email
saying semiconductors,
something drastic is happening in India.
Is that a possibility?
"Drastic" means?
Like, so the backstory goes
that at one point,
India was really focused
on semiconductors.
There was one particular factory
which burned down.
But in the last 20 years,
we have been left behind
or 30 years we have been left behind,
and they are restarting the effort...
to manufacture
more semiconductors in India.
Is that possible?
With TSMC and all of that?
The whole world is relying on them, right?
You mean like start a new TSMC
or get TSMC to...
Like both semiconductor design
and manufacturing. Can I--
-So you can't create a TSMC...
-[Nikhil] Can you compete?
I think it comes down to, like,
the depth of the thing, right?
Like how many millimetre...
So we are working in one of the companies
on semiconductors.
And what you're referring is,
there was one fab in India,
only one fab which was in Mohali,
government owned, long back...
[Nikhil] Yes.
Doing probably, you know,
100 nanometres or something like that.
Today TSMC is doing two nanometres.
Two-three, correct.
So, of course, I mean,
you can't catch up with two nanometre.
Even, see, China started their
semiconductor programme 20 years back.
They are still not able
to compete on that.
But it is very, very important.
All four of us, like, 15 years back or so,
have you ever thought that
semiconductor will be more valuable
or important than oil?
Not even a thought came across to my mind.
Back then.
But if you see today, it is.
And I am assuming the same thing.
I am assuming US, China continue to fight.
And Taiwan becomes...
I don't know,
maybe our friend in that fight
or maybe not our friend.
If our supply chain gets disrupted
where we can't get those
2mm semiconductors,
what does India do then?
It is a tough question because,
you know, it is divided in multiple parts.
So it is not only about two nanometres.
Two nanometre is only one segment.
Then you have--
So, government is saying, you start with,
let's say 35 nanometres right now,
is good enough.
Because you have to start coming slowly
one by one. Right?
So even that, you know,
if we can start at 35,
because those are larger components,
which can go into you know, other things.
You know, refrigerators, TVs,
vacuums, cars and all.
And then slowly, slowly you start coming
in for the ITs and the mobile phones.
But at least we start attacking the,
you know, the 35, 40 nanometres,
25 nanometres, start attacking that.
So that is the opportunity.
I mean, straight away, you know,
you can't leapfrog.
As I said, China has put
billions and billions of dollars
and still they are not able
to achieve that.
And there are--
Again, it's a country play.
A company can't build something like this.
Country, you know, has to come into it.
For example, to do a,
let's say,
anything less than 10 nanometres,
you need to have lithography.
What is that?
It's a machine. It's a technology.
That technology is right now
with Holland, Netherlands.
There is a company...
This company name is...
-ASML.
No competitors.
So, ASML has those machines.
You need to have access to that.
In those machines, the software
actually is coming from the United States.
So it's a-- It's all a--
Because it's a game where you need to
work on this technology
and need to stabilise the technology.
So the government has to come
and play into that.
So, it's way more deeper
than what we feel. Because, you know--
But, you know,
semiconductor is a vast range.
It's not only that, only doing a TSMC,
because when we talk about semiconductors,
you know, we always talk about TSMC.
Memory.
Why can't India have its own memory?
Can we design our own?
Let's, for example, in your IT,
there is Gen 4, there is Gen 5,
now there is Gen 6.
Why can't India come up with,
I'm talking about, let's say,
Gen 8 or Gen 9?
End of the day, you have to have that.
So these are all opportunities--
I'll ask you a question
on top of your question only.
Why is it not happening?
Because in India,
we were good in services.
So we were--
Our services sector was doing good.
So people said, okay,
let's build on the services business.
So if you see all these Gen 4, 5,
half of their manpower
will be sitting in Bangalore and Hyderabad
and designing for the other bigger brands
who are somewhere in US
or other countries.
But not for us.
Because A, we were not having
those government programmes earlier.
They were not, right--
Not focused on creating
something like that.
So, where the buck was going was,
okay, services is an easy business,
let's go there.
Half of the people working on those
technologies will be from India.
He was talking about Qualcomm or MTK,
their biggest R&D centres are in India.
-Mm?
-Yes.
So the focus--
But now we have, you know,
with the current government,
all the new schemes coming in,
people are becoming more aware of that.
See, today we are discussing
about semiconductors.
Otherwise, if it was a consumer brand
or electronics and that,
why will we be discussing
about semiconductors?
Because now, all of us,
because of the policies and everything,
and whatever happened,
we are more aware of that.
You are doing a bunch of
very new things, right?
Like with television, operating software.
There is one company
that we are both part of.
-Around television, as well.
-Yeah.
What's happening in that world?
Would you like to tell us?
No, that's more on the aggregation,
because the way we consume content
is completely changing.
Can you tell us your thesis around that?
Thesis is that, you know,
you buy a product,
and then you start getting multiple apps,
and then you start paying different apps.
Then your user experience is then,
that whatever recommendation
one is showing something else,
the other is showing us
some different recommendation,
third is showing something else.
Why can't I have an experience
wherein I switch on my TV,
and then I don't have to go in any app?
There is one user interface,
and all the apps are stitched into that.
You just type in your,
let's say, username.
Let's say nikhil@gmail.com,
and then everything from your Netflix
to your Zee to your Sony,
as per your choice and recommendation,
everything starts coming on one screen.
You're not going in an app.
That's one area-- Because again,
it's an evolving space.
And then you bundle it
along with the hardware piece,
wherein you move on a SaaS model.
How do you...
I'm pretty interested
in this business model,
because as a content platform,
you don't want to be unbundled, right?
You want your own app,
your own user experience.
Yes.
How do you get their stuff?
Like, it's not in their incentive
to unbundle their content.
Like, you're saying,
how do you get access to that content?
Yeah, for instance, Netflix.
If I'm Netflix, and you say,
you just want to take the content...
Apart from Netflix,
you take some other example,
because that's
a different animal altogether.
-Hotstar.
-Let's say Hotstar, yeah.
So, I have my own app,
I have my own users,
I don't want to give you my content,
because then I lose
my competitive advantage.
Then my content becomes a commodity
on your platform.
So, I mean, the platform,
the content, the platforms,
they will try and hedge
against this, right?
So, if there are like, say, 25 apps,
which are the most widely used apps
out there,
and out of 25, 90% of the apps,
you're able to get inside the app
and get the permission for recommendation
and everything.
And then, you know,
put it on your screen for the user.
I think it's acceptable.
-So, for them, it's like incremental.
-Yes.
If I don't work with you,
I won't make this money.
Might as well make the money.
-Because they also need distribution.
-Yeah.
So, then you have a few big ones
that are harder to negotiate with.
They will come with scale.
So, once you achieve scale,
they will say, "All right."
-"We also want this."
-I get it.
It's a bit like
cell phone and app store, right?
Yeah.
So, when there's a new OS
on the cell phone,
the big app makers
are not going to adopt, right?
They're going to wait for the distribution
to come first.
So, I think it's about that adoption.
Yeah.
But when you bundle,
I think it gets cheaper.
Yeah.
Why don't you guys speak
like I'm not in the room
and there are no cameras?
Yeah, isn't... We're trying to.
[laughter]
Carl, what opportunity exists
in the consumer market besides phones?
What do I want to have exist?
No. I mean,
what are the opportunities which--
Oh, what opportunities exist?
Not for the large players.
I'm only thinking about, like,
very big categories all the time.
I'm thinking about, like,
EVs and robotics stuff.
But I agree, like, if you're young,
you have to start with something
more simple.
[Nikhil] What is China like?
What else do you think we can learn
as a country from them?
I don't spend a lot of time
thinking about policy.
But I do think the PLI is set up...
You probably know more
about PLI than me, but...
We are very keen to be a part
of the next generation PLI scheme.
I think if India wants to develop
its own smartphone ecosystem,
starting from the factory,
EMS side is very good.
That's already happening.
Incentivising foreign and domestic players
to build here.
It's already happening.
I think to reach the next stage,
it can't just be
manufacturing and exports.
Because ultimately,
that's not the highest value add.
The next stage will be to design
and engineer here as well.
So, what is the next stage policy
after the goal of PLI
has been accomplished?
What is the next stage plan? I'm not sure.
I'm just starting to spend more time
and learn more about this.
So, I think, to your question that,
what can we do?
If you see what they have done
in last 25 years,
in terms of
all the government policies, so...
We are discussing about incentivising,
that is one.
That is one incentive.
But rest of the other enablers,
for example, the whole supply chain
in terms of materials and everything,
they have worked
a lot deeper on that segment.
In terms of logistics,
they have created logistics parks
to enable that.
Today, if we are talking about,
for example, now we have,
let's say, iPhones going and exporting
and doing all this sort of things.
The way we are expanding,
you will need two full, bigger, you know,
large aircrafts every week
to ferry the product from here to Chicago.
We need to have that.
We need to, you know, build bigger ports,
wherein you can reduce the time.
Because they have taken all that measures,
not only in one segment,
because we talk only about this,
but every segment,
they have done with all those policies.
I think consumer electronics
is a very expensive
and difficult thing
for somebody without experience.
-All of a sudden going--
-Experience is key, I believe.
Without that you can't do.
In fact, you can't do also,
I personally think.
[Nikhil] You're making dessert?
-Yeah--
-[Amit] Doing is expensive only.
I mean, you will 100% make mistakes.
I think we found a couple of themes,
you know, where people could start.
Something more focused,
something more niche,
lower risk, lower capex.
Start from there, evolve from there.
It could be on the consumer side,
with clothing or accessories.
It could be on the supply chain side
with parts of the stack
that are easier to make.
And then just evolve from there.
It could be on the distribution side
with content creation
as a means of distributing information.
But, Rahul, what is your thought?
We have seen all brands across the globe
coming to India in consumer electronics.
Hardly there are brands who have gone out.
-To have gone?
-To have gone outside India.
-Indian brands?
-Yeah, Indian brands.
Forget Southeast Asian countries
for a while.
But none of the brands have gone outside
our home turf and played a game there.
Do you think world needs
some new age brands?
I have solid thesis for that.
So, I personally think
India as a country...
I mean we all work with scarcity mindset.
So, what has happened that,
what a US or an European entrepreneur
would try to solve a problem
by throwing a dollar.
A dollar is 90 rupees for us.
So, what I'm trying to say,
for us every penny counts.
And for something
what they are producing for $100,
a similar great quality product,
Indian entrepreneur could build for,
let's say 30-40% cheaper than them.
We have captive consumption.
Entrepreneurs now are very smart,
they are very evolved,
travelled, done across.
Why can't we take that arbitrage
and take these brands to the globe?
I mean, we are good at marketing
by the way, Indian entrepreneur.
Software, we are good at.
Hardware, we can learn from our peers.
Why can't Indian brands--
Why can't we build brands
who are based out of India
and move to global scale?
There are no brands existing everywhere,
there are old traditional brands.
-It's starting now, right?
-Yeah.
With you guys.
[Amit] So,
that's what we are trying to do.
We believe that
it is a right platform for us.
We have gained decent experience
and international markets
we could do justice.
But I'm generally talking.
We need more brands. One brand can't do.
I mean, I have seen we all buying
international brands.
Are you talking about-- You want me
to answer in consumer electronics?
I am talking about consumer electronics,
specifically, yeah.
In consumer electronics,
you can go into those markets
where your products are relevant.
-Bang on.
-[Rahul] Okay?
So, for example, in Indian demographics,
whatever products you are making,
you are going to take the same product
because you have scale and you go there.
So, that's what I am saying. So, when...
I mean, I want to cater to a market
which is, let's say, mid.
Because I don't want a cheapest product.
-Which is fine. So--
-[Amit] Indian demographic.
So, those products you have taken into
those similar categories and similar...
-you know, geographies.
-[Amit] Yeah.
-That you can do.
Southeast Asia, all other, you know,
so, for example, all the SAARC countries,
then this side, Russia, Eastern Europe.
These are fantastic markets.
-[Amit] Yeah.
-Right?
Then second, if you are saying
that you want to hit the upper deck.
I am just staying middle.
See, upper, I am very clear.
Let Sony, Samsung play the game
what they are playing, or Apple.
We don't want to touch them.
The consumers are very loyal.
They have an ecosystem.
They have advantages
of whatever they could, so...
You already have a scale in India.
And then when you are going outside,
you know, you go with that.
Same scale and cater to that.
Create one or two more brands.
And use--
Leverage the scale what you have.
And, you know,
you can attack the markets--
No, that's what I am saying, we can do it.
-India need those brands.
-Yes.
We are just no more
about basic necessity brand,
where we are just solving for features.
And you'll be surprised, I'll tell you,
Rahul, where I'm coming from,
When we-- We just launched in Dubai
in Virgin stores.
Traditionally, Indian brands would have
gone and launched a $20 product.
We launched ourselves
at $75 to $100 pricing.
And we're getting a great response.
I mean, look at the kind of response
people are giving
for a decent-price-point products.
-Again, innovation is one.
-100%.
Innovation is needed.
You can't enter a commodity space.
Innovation and then you can have--
Create different brands for,
you know, different needs.
One brand can't serve all, that's true.
[Rahul] Look at...
Here you have OPPO, then you have OnePlus,
then you have Realme.
Under one umbrella only.
-We have two brands.
-[Rahul] Yeah.
He has to come up with CMF because...
-We need the scale.
-Yeah.
The scale, 100% is needed.
I think you can build mid-market
with the scale.
-Yeah.
-Otherwise, nobody gonna support you.
Yeah.
But I think it's--
The Indian economy
has got into a point in time
where there's entrepreneurs
with a skill-set to go global.
And it's already the language advantage,
the language and culture advantage.
-It's easier to do marketing.
-[Amit] Yeah.
Right? It's easier to do US or Europe.
But on the product definition side,
it's easier to go to
more similar markets first.
There will be more risk going into...
You need product market fit,
which I am aligned.
You go to-- Like, we also are going
to similar markets,
which are easy acceptance.
And then try to go in territory--
I respect all territories.
So, I mean, let's say US,
these are all tough markets.
It's easy to go and break there.
So, I would like to go small there,
do little trials, fail, and then take on.
Yeah. So, they are, as I said,
going to SAARC countries,
going to, you know,
Russia, Eastern Europe,
which are all, you know, great markets
for you to do your trials and all.
And then also tweak.
We should start, like, a hub.
Like, start a place
where we fund young entrepreneurs
to build some of the stuff we spoke about.
100%
Right? Like, get some land,
give them the resources.
You guys all have the know-how.
Like, start one place where people can--
Like, an incubator of sorts,
with real estate.
And it's easier to do. On...
And it could be anything.
You know, you can--
If somebody comes up with an idea
with a diaper,
which will have some connectivity,
which tells that it is wet or not
or whatever.
Same tech you could be using,
let's say, in the ring.
I just found out a tech
where my daughter--
My wife wanted to monitor
my daughter about fever.
And you can't measure
every time for a kid.
So, there was a socks she could wear
when she was six months or a year.
It could track the sleep,
the temperature and everything. So...
These are micro-niche markets,
but yeah, innovations are there.
What's the deal with these rings
that you are wearing?
Why are they growing so much?
Why is everybody buying them?
So, I think market moves
in different form factors.
And market need newness.
This form factor, like watches,
are maybe mass-adoption phase,
whatever phase you want to call.
Rings are a new category, early adopters.
And people are getting
more health conscious, also.
So, they are pairing it
with their watches, by the way.
They are not a replacement for a watch.
Is that an opportunity,
health-related consumer electronics?
You guys seeing any trends there?
So, I wear a WHOOP on my feet.
So, what I have realised,
I am into, I mean...
I am little bit into this space,
so I understand it.
So, consumer is saying it's good to have.
Meaning, I want a fitness device,
but I will not track fitness.
I mean, you would see a guy
wearing a WHOOP-- I was talking--
and eating a McDonald's burger
and a cola and a 100 kilos.
So, it's just visual cues to tell people
that I belong to this universe
where I know.
I want to know what I am,
but they are not cautious.
I think they are little bit aware of it,
but not that--
India is a market, internationally, yes.
People are more and more health conscious.
Preventive healthcare is...
-You know that patch which measures--
-CGM.
-Insulin spikes.
-Yeah.
I have always been thinking
that at some point
an Apple Watch can start doing that.
Do you think that's an opportunity,
if your watch has a CGM monitor in it?
So, if you look at use cases,
so I think these devices--
Okay, diabetic is a very big used case,
this problem.
And this doesn't work, by the way.
Nobody uses it.
For us, we have used for wellness,
but diabetic patient also doesn't use it.
It is 5,000 bucks, it's too expensive.
And nobody wants to break it every time.
So, we feel wearable gonna divert
towards health side,
like we were talking about.
Health is a segment.
Thirty-five plus,
you start getting those problems.
Apple is 100% working on it.
But Apple will only come when it becomes
really solid, mainstream, proven,
because it's health.
Is there no opportunity unique to India?
What do we want in health
that other people don't want?
No, I think, no.
This is a good space
if somebody is working on it.
Honestly,
I would like to invest in a space
where people are working on CGM.
So, Apple is working.
Samsung has a huge R&D centre
in Bangalore,
where they are working on
blood pressure and CGM on device,
where it's non-invasive.
So, I think in two-three years time
we will see it there.
I believe in health.
Health has PMF in consumer electronics.
And another field that has PMF
is children's education.
Parents are always willing to invest
in the future of their kids.
What would that look like?
We have a common friend
who is building this company
called SuperLearn, where--
He is trying to build a tablet
which costs $150,
where you can't, like,
really browse the net
and go to YouTube and Netflix,
but replace your school bag
with that device.
You mean learning like that? Do you think
something like that could work?
That could work.
It could also be, like,
some form of smartwatch for kids,
for learning, maybe with an AI companion.
It could also just be a teddy bear.
That's there, no? The toy is there.
Miko-- Miko is doing good.
I just know that it's a space
where people want to spend money
and are not price sensitive.
So, you-- Wherever you are spending,
you will spend for your parents,
you will spend for your kids.
And your health.
And health.
What do you guys think of Elon Musk
in Neuralink?
I like the thesis.
It's trying to make the communication
more efficient.
Efficiency is always beneficial
to humanity.
But maybe there are other ways
to get to higher efficiency.
I don't know how long it will take
for that to really work for mass market.
Do you think people will be willing
to do that?
Like, put something in your body,
not on your body?
If the benefits are there, I think so.
But currently...
I don't think the benefits are there.
Just dovetailing into his question.
Wherein, these days,
people are talking more about organic.
They don't want to take
unnecessary medicines and...
I mean, for somebody who is disabled,
then they get a lot of benefit
from using that product today.
But at what point
does it become beneficial
for a normal person to use that? And why?
I think there is still some time to go.
Wouldn't you suddenly become
so much smarter
if you have something in your head
which is telling you everything?
You can almost have that already now
if you have earbuds with ChatGPT.
You can speak to ChatGPT voice.
-With the AI glass also coming.
-[Carl] Yeah.
You are sitting in front of this.
This is the setup. This is happening--
That's way easier to adopt
than operating something into your body.
What happens to the world? Like...
If intelligence is on call,
traditional intelligence is on call
or information is on call,
we still have to differentiate.
How do we do that?
I think most people are going to...
I think 80% of the population
will just chill
and receive income from the government.
And a small group of people
will leverage the new technologies
to push society and humanity forward.
Like universal basic income.
Yeah. I think that will happen for sure.
Yeah?
I think you can't replace, you know,
emotional quotient out of that.
You know, that's what makes
all of us unique.
All of us--
You give us the same piece of information
to all four of us,
all four of us will behave differently
and will have different actions.
I think that is something which...
you can't take away.
Do you think?
A little bit agree on this.
Basic, I think 80% of the jobs
will be done,
for 20% you would still need human...
The productivity will increase so much.
But I think he is also right
that we all will become more lazy.
Like, kids today
don't need to use their brain.
They will be doing everything on...
You need to be very self-motivated,
but those people
can really leverage the technology
to create so much more productivity.
I wonder if a kid will think tomorrow
if I can just regurgitate a book
from my device at any point,
then why read the book?
That's how I was thinking
when I was in school.
-Like, I can just Google the information.
-[Amit] Yeah.
Why should I memorise this?
Okay. Last part.
I want each of you guys to give one advice
to me, the 25-year-old,
having watched this today.
Tomorrow morning I want to wake up
and figure out what to build.
One piece of advice.
Would you like to go first?
I think if somebody needs to
plan something in this space
or whatever space, I think,
definitely a thorough research is needed.
I mean, why you're going in, and--
I think you need to have that fuel
or patience also to build it.
That passion we are talking about
and do pick up a narrow niche
instead of going too broad.
I mean, pick up a smaller subset
of whatever problem you want to solve.
Go double down and then move on.
Definitely there are going to be
failures, learnings--
But I would term them as learnings
and you keep pivoting with that.
So that would be one thing.
I would say be really sure
that you want to do something.
It's not always fun.
I think most people
should not be entrepreneurs.
Most people have a much higher
quality of life doing other things,
specialising in a tech field
or working for somebody else.
Very inspiring advice
to wannabe entrepreneurs, Carl,
I must say.
It's better to say it now, right,
rather than finding out down the line?
[Rahul] He is scaring us.
Just be really sure.
I think, like, it needs to come from
a deep passion around something
because it's going to be hard.
There will be euphoric days,
but there will also be terrible days.
Like, lack of sleep for weeks. Like--
I mean, we've all
been through that probably.
Why are you going to keep pushing forward
when you face those difficulties?
I think you've got to be sure
that this is what you really want to do,
that you're passionate about it.
I believe in the potential
of every individual person.
Like, if you really want to
accomplish something, you can.
But there's a cost associated with it.
And I think for most people,
the cost is not worth it.
Rahul?
My only advice will be
show me your five friends.
Because...
if you have to build a successful company,
then you have to keep a good company.
So, if you have--
And you will become like that.
So, if you have a good company
of people, who are like-minded,
then even if you have, you know,
there's certain qualities
and things which you don't possess,
you can, you know...
A, rely, learn, and do,
and, you know, come up with...
come out of various difficulties.
So, basically you will become, like,
whatever your company is.
So, if your company is, like,
there are guys who are doing other things,
you will eventually, you will go that way.
But if you have
five people reading biology,
you will certainly go down that path.
Even if you are not--
You don't want to learn,
you say, "No, I am not a bio person,
I am a physics person."
But, at least, you are doing physics.
You are not just doing anything else.
So, just keep a cohort of those people...
and I think you will--
A lot of things will get resolved.
Fair.
My fleeting thought,
I am quite excited
about this component incubator.
I would say let's each of us
put in a little bit of money,
not care too much about the upside,
and try and get not too many.
I think we should find four kids,
support them in building
a component company
with time, money and all of that.
And maybe other people can learn
from what we have done and replicate.
And I hope we are successful.
But, thank you to each one of you
for flying into my home and doing this.
Very kind and I will reach out to you
for different kinds of advice
at different points of time,
and also to help all the young
wannabe entrepreneurs in India.
But, thank you.
No, no. Thank you so much.
Thanks for the great food.
-[Amit] Good food.
-[Rahul] Loved it.
Thank you guys.
Like a high protein...
It's protein powder,
yoghurt, and dark chocolate.
-Very nice.
-Yeah. It's all, like, really clean food.
Did you guys have fun? Was that okay?
-[Amit] Yeah, yeah.
-It was superb.